Best Metro in the world!;Fast, cheap, one train every minute and it brings you anywhere you need in the city. Never expereinced any better metro in the world.;5; January 2022
always running on time;You can guarantee the metro will show when they say. The subways are pristine and quite. I love the people. No one screaming or speaking loudly anywhere. You could whisper to friends and still hear each other.;5;January 26, 2022
state of art;You will be surprised to see some of the Moscow metro stations. More like a museum with amazing architecture. Long impressive escalators, not overcrowded trains (unless middle of rush hour), very well priced with the troyka card.If you have been in crowded, small, dirty metro of New-York, London, etc... you will be positively surprised in Moscow!;5;January 5, 2022
Good transportation;For first time I go to Moscow I went to metro station it was at winter and a lot of snow it was very good and clean and fast at the specific time;5;December 26, 2021
Most beautiful metro;The Moscow metro is famous, and there is a reason:many stations are very beautifully designed, so is worth to stop and admire the design. I did the circle tour and stopped at several stations which were all very beautiful. Highly recommended when you visit the city!;5;September 21, 2021
Scary;Visited the place recently. It seems highly outdated. Needs a lot to be repaired. Never go there again.;5;September 1, 2021
Completely another world!;Moscow's metro is like completely another world! I was not expecting to see such beauty underground and was very surprised to know they even organize tours. If you have a chance to go there, go ahead without any single doubt.;5;June 10, 2021
My 17 most beautiful stations of the Moscow metro. Out of 230.;The Moscow Metro and the state agency Rosturizm have prepared a rating of the 10 most beautiful and interesting metro stations in Moscow. As the French say: there is no dispute about tastes and colors. According to officials, tourists should definitely see it. It's not a trivial task to inspect them, so I'll tell you what you can't miss. 1. Mayakovskaya station (1938) -. mosaic of the famous artist of the USSR Alexander Deineka on the theme "Day of the land of the Soviets". The design of the station in the Art Deco style was awarded the Grand Prix of the World's Fair in New York in 1938. You can do this trick. Shove a 2 ruble coin on the guide of the steel arch and disperse it against the law of universal gravity, so that it pops out opposite. It turns out for some. 2. "Revolution Square" (1938). 76 bronze figures in niches made in the Leningrad workshop of artistic casting under the direction of M. G. Manizer. Rub the nose of a border guard dog — and your wish will certainly come true. Noses are polished to a shine by millions of hands. 3. "Kropotkinskaya" (1935). Laconic design awarded the Grand Prix of the exhibition in Paris (1937) and Brussels (1958). I wouldn't waste any time.4. "Novoslobodskaya" (1952) - The stained glass windows of the artist Pavel Korin and the mosaic panel "World Peace" are undoubtedly worthy of attention.5. "Arbatskaya" of the Arbatsko-Pokrovskaya line (1953). Moscow Baroque: bouquets of flowers made of ceramics, bronze chandeliers. 6. "Komsomolskaya" of the Ring Line (1953). The busiest station in Moscow mestro because of the three railway stations. The project of the outstanding architect Alexey Shchusev. The station's decoration is dedicated to the theme of Russia's struggle against foreign invaders and the victory in the Great Patriotic War. Tourists can not advertise it, everyone knows about it initially from the guidebooks. 7. "Oktyabrskaya" of the Ring Line (1950).The station's decoration is dedicated to the theme "The Triumph of the victory over Nazism in the Great Patriotic War". with corresponding bas-reliefs 8. "Vorobyovy gory" (1959). The longest in the Moscow metro. 284 meters. It was built according to a unique project. The station tracks and platform are located on the lower tier of the metro bridge. Design in a modern style. I would have missed it.9. "Victory Park" (2003) is the deepest in the Moscow Metro. It consists of two parallel marble halls decorated with murals by the favorite artist of the Moscow Mayor's Office, Zurab Tsereteli. Look at his ugly monument near the new Tretyakov Gallery and answer the question whether you still want to look at Tsereteli. 10. "Slavyansky Bulvar" ( 2008). The design plays up the theme of " boulevard»: benches with decorative lanterns, wrought-iron grilles with floral ornaments in the Russian Art Nouveau style. So instead of Kropotkinskaya, Victory Park and Vorobyovy Gory, I would recommend the following stations. Mendeleevskaya-lamps in the form of atomic lattices of chemical elements in honor of Mendeleev. Kievskaya (Ring Line) - colorful panels and mosaics in honor of the Russian-Ukrain friendship. Dostoevskaya-stylization of Dostoevsky's novels with his portrait on the transition. Rimskaya (Roman) station (1995). The only station designed by foreign architects Andrea Cuatrocchi and Giampaolo Imbrigi. A short-cropped Madonna with a large breast and a baby, and opposite the Mouth of Truth (Bocca della Verità) from the church of Santa Maria Cosmedin in Rome. Savelovskaya station (2018). The most stylish. Black and white.Better to visit late in the evening to take cool photos. And, of course, that's not all. Teatralnaya (Theater sq), Novokuznetskaya, Taganskaya, Aviamotornaya, Elektrozavodskaya. There are 230 Moscow Metro stations to choose from.;5;May 5, 2021
Museum;Every station tells a different story. It is mesmerizing what people built so long ago, and it still looks intact. We were in love with every single station. This is a must-see!;5;May 5, 2021
World's biggest and cheapest underground museum complex - TIPS for visit;Although this was my 4th time in Russian capital, every time I'm there I'm thrilled and repeatingly overwhelmed with its metro. For its residents who got used to it it's probably an ordinary mean of transportation.For any visitor to Moscow it should be very high on his list to do.Apart from being the fastest and cheapest transportation option, it's a feast for eyes - many stations are art jewels. Their corridors, arches, chandeliers, paintings, mosaics, sculptures,...etc are such many museums can envy them.Further, the whole system is amazingly clean - from the entry hall, down the escalators over the stations to trains. Again, many worldwide metropolis can envy on that. You'll see no beggars, junkies, homeless, no graffiti, no inappropriate behavior. What I specially like as a history buff - they didn't turn back and rename or demolish their Socialist legacy. You'll still see proletariat paroles, motives from field and factory labor, achievements in many fields, Lenin along with sickle and hammer symbols,...etc.TIPS:- The single ticket costs 60 Rub (less than 70 Euro cents) and is valid as long as you're down under. There're also other card options with multi tickets reducing the price to under 0,50 Euros.- When down there's absolutely NO need to rush. Take your time to admire the stations. Running for the train makes absolutely no sense - the next is coming in max 2-3 min- for taking best pics avoid morning and afternoon rush hours. Midday and specially evenings are great- all stations have noticeable police and security presence - I've never felt unsafe,- List of beautiful stations I'd advise to visit (list is NOT in order of beauty, but random): Mayakovskaya, Novokuznetskaya, Park Pobedy, Kiyevskaya, Arbatskaya, Ploschad Revolucii, Komsomolskaya, Prospekt Mira, Novoslobodskaya,....- Remember, if you see a station you like while riding, go out and check it, as the next train is in 2 min as I said.;5;May 5, 2021
Barbie in Moscow Metro;Going through the Sparrow Hills. That's the name of a metro station. A unique metro station - it's located on a bridge. Moreover, for the latest 10 years it serves as an exhibition hall.So, I look out of the window - what's that familiar girl in pink there on the platform?Oh, come on, it's the Barbie doll!And she is not just a doll, she is a train driver!Year 2021 makes quite a difference for the Moscow metro. So far there are 12 female train drivers, next year there may be more! And they are very, very orderly.So please, mind the doors :));5;January 28, 2021
Good transportation;For first time I go to Moscow I went to metro station it was at winter and a lot of snow it was very good and clean and fast at the specific time;5;January 14, 2021
Miniature  Museums;When in Moscow try to travel around by train.On my 1st trip there in 2014 all the announcements via the train intercom were in Russian.This last time it was accompanied in English.Each of the stations is located deep underground. The platforms are very Soviet era.  With gold & crystal chandeliers, huge hammer & sickle tiles murals, brass ornaments & bright lighting.On my 1st visit was taken aback by the presence of armed Police with machine guns patrolling the platforms & trains.In fact a lot of public places had such a high Police presence. O soon got used to seeing them around.But back to the Metro.  My kids having played video games where the Moscow Metro was depicted found that it looked quite similar to the game.  Barring the zombies, marauding gangs & nuclear blasts.But have a look, it is well worth the train ride around Moscow. You can also save a lot of money & time by using the Metro to go to & from the airports into Moscow.Only a few $$ compared to the exorbitant fees if a taxi or hire car.;5;January 7, 2021
cool;It is not easy time but metro keeps high standards of service. Security is in place, very clean, fantastic timings between trains. Really good installation, and extremely helpful;5;December 27, 2020
Enjoying each and every day. Not cheap one way$1;I absolutely love Russia subway in Moscow. You feel like you are in museum and the scent (no kidding) is great too, rails, rails, ppl rushing, so much beauty around. The best time to stop and smell the roses. Love Moscow!!!!!!!!;5;September 12, 2020
The most beautiful and grand metro stations in the world;Moscow metro is beautiful inside. Very crowded at times. In post-pandemic times still full of people. Free sanitiser machines (stands) on almost every entrance / exit. Announcements asks people to wear masks and gloves, but only a few do.;4;September 10, 2020
Unique experience;You do not expect to see such a beautiful places underneath So elegant. Every station is different. You get more if Russian culture;5;August 27, 2020
Cultural design;By far one of the best metro stations I've seen so far, maybe only Saint Petersburg its a bit better.;5;August 24, 2020
Excellent picturesque subway;I always admire Moscow subway. The oils stations are really like museums, some new ones are rather IKEA style. It's cheap - 50c oneway;5;August 14, 2020
Quintessential experience;Buy a concession card and take a tour of the stations and enjoy the decor, theming. Trains run through constantly and its easy to navigate around. Dont do it in rush hour as it will be hard to take photos.  Its so efficient and cheap as well. Still love the stations in tashkent more but these are great.;5;July 31, 2020
Quick and easy transportation;The system is fast with frequent trains.  Many of the Metro stations are just beautiful works of art.  Also, trains and stations are clean.  Never felt unsafe at any time.;5;July 24, 2020
If you don't live take the tour when you visit;Apart from the fact the system works well as simply transport, the architecture is stunning (Uzbekistan possibly slightly more so?  - but not on the same scale)   These are not tube stations - they are functional subterranean cathedrals;5;July 23, 2020
It’s the most beautiful one in the world.;None of the other metro systems in the world compare close to the beautiful Moscow Metro. Visited many stations, my favourites are Komsomolskaya and Kievskaya. The metro is also very convenient to get around the city.;4;June 26, 2020
Fast way to get around.;As a NYC subway rider for decades, the Moscow Subway experience is rather a treat.   It doesn't take a graduate degree to figure out how to buy tickets, and sign language works well.  The orange-haired ticket vendor had a great smile when she figured out I wasn't a Muscovite.   Just wish there were more stops... long distances between them for a New Yakker.  And like everywhere, it helps to know where you are on the map. I didn't get lost but could have!;4;June 13, 2020
Strong, Robust and Beautiful;Moscow is a city with rivers everywhere. So the metro is placed below the river depth. So when you take the escalator down to the metro, you realize how deep it is. The metro is one of the oldest in metro and robust and strong. It looks sturdy. The corridors and stations are decorated beautifully. Metro network is laid in different lines and they connect you to each part of the city.;5;May 30, 2020
magnificent art on station's walls;Most of the station's boarding platform wall have magnificent ancient art. Very nice drawing and carving. The pathway are clean.;5;May 28, 2020
Great presentation;Tanya was an amazing and competent tour guide. She showed us everything in such an interesting and involving way. thank you so much!;5;May 26, 2020
The number one metro;The most beautiful metro in the world. Absolutely must-see in Russia. It's fantastic! I recommend, it was a great experience to explore it.;5;May 22, 2020
Beautiful;During our visits to Moscow, we regularly used the metro, very clean, well decorated, we thought we were in a museum, fair price and well dessevi, to do absolutely;5;May 22, 2020
So old;The metro in moscow is like musuem. The walls are like a tablou full of paints and details. But unfortunately the wagons were so old.;3;May 19, 2020
Highly efficient Underground art galleries from Stalin era;The Moscow Metro, in addition to being remarkably efficient and frequent (departures every 2-3 minutes at most main stations, you just have to be aware of the closing times after midnight) and economical (we purchased troika cards and recharged as necessary) also contains a number of wonderful stations filled with Stalin era art and sculptures and architecture.  It is easy to do your own on line research to see which stations you would like to see and then either spend a few hours going from one to the next (in which case it is exceptionally cheap as you are only charged a single fare if you do not exit the system), or just add in detours to the stations during your other travels.  Even at relatively busy times we found that if we hung around for a few minutes we could get an opportunity for photos with not many people or you could choose to include the large crowds in the picture.  The very long escalators at some stations are also a feature in themselves.;5;May 9, 2020
Nice;When I saw Metro over here I was really amazed I have never seen such a beautiful Metro in my life just love it;4;May 6, 2020
You must ride it at least once;There is nothing more soviet than taking the metro, you have to try it at least once and enjoy the beautiful decorations of some of the stations.   If you get lost, just show someone a map, they will help you figure out which train to take. Actually Russians are very friendly, don't be afraid!;5;April 26, 2020
Best metro;This is the best metro system I have ever seen in my live. Very clean, save no homeless people and just beautiful.;5;April 26, 2020
Beautiful and convenient;Stations are all different in design and all beautiful (and we didn’t even get to see the most famous ones). The metro is easy to use. We were given a refillable card- you just put money on it and scan it every time you enter the station. It tells you what balance you have left on it. Very convenient. My husband was responsible for maps and routes and he found it very easy. Stations are clean and all of them have escalators. The cars are clean too and most are very modern. Some of them have screens with news and informations. Very cool. There are security men at the entrance of every station.;5;April 9, 2020
The best and most ornate metro system on Earth;Without a doubt the best metro system in the world. Stunningly ornate, efficient and clean. Taking ride on the metro to see the amazing stations is a must whether you stay at the Ritz-Carlton, a hostel or anything in between! Some companies offer tours, however I personally recommend to explore solo. You get a much more authentic and Muscovite experience. The metro is very safe, but do take safety normal precautions regarding personal belongings. My personal favourite stations which you should definitely visit:1. Komsomolskaya (Line 5)2. Belorusskaya (Line 5)3. Novoslobodskaya (Line 5)4. Park Pobedy to see and ride the longest escalator in the world (Line 3)5. Elektrozavodskaya (Line 3)6. Mayakovskya (Line 2)7. Ploshchad Revolyutsii (Line 3)8. Arbatskaya (Line 3);5;April 4, 2020
Historical, Amazing, Varied and very affordable;The Moscow Metro is one of my favorite on the globe.  It is easy to use and very low cost.  Trains are plentiful, and the stations are in all the right places.;5;March 29, 2020
History re-visited;An underground wonder, Moscow Metro takes you to an era in history. With amazing brass sculptors, you journey back to the history of Russia. Salute to the sculptors preserving their past!;4;March 24, 2020
Transport🚂;It is very, very noisy! (hush at the spaceport) Dirty! Homeless people on trains and stations. A lot of people all the time! Not all escalators work, and therefore a crowd gathers around them. Heavy exit doors, you can bang your head! People confuse the inscriptions on the doors (entrance, exit). Be careful! Poor supply of signatures.  It’s not always clear where to go... ❌It also stinks terribly, I don’t know what, but the smell is still felt.;1;March 13, 2020
Efficient and cheap! Use it!;We used this several times. Easy to use and only about 50p a trip! Some of the stations are amazing! Great architecture!;4;March 11, 2020
A trip in the Metro Museum;having a trip in Moscow Metro is like going around an art museum for a quick trip. enjoying all what u can see around. even they have some renovation or maintenance areas but they had really taken care of it. try to have a smart visa card with wireless payment to ensure u r not stuck with tickets que;5;March 8, 2020
Best way to get around;The metro system is excellent, fast regular trains and coverage of the whole city. Trains are frequent and clean (if crowded). Prices are good (get a multi trip card) and there is free wifi on board. All announcements are in Russian an English and so are the visual displays. Many of the stations are works of art in their own right.;5;March 6, 2020
Day tripping;We were advised to check out the Metro ( I don’t really like the underground trains) but wow !! It’s just beautiful ! So cheap and easy to navigate ! We loved it so much we spent a few hours tripping from one station to another ! So clean and well organised and fascinating ! Don’t miss out !;4;March 3, 2020
Huge and beautiful;Most beautiful and convenient subway I have ever seen. Very convenient. Train come almost every minute.;5;March 2, 2020
Easy to use;I unfortunately didn’t take the time to appreciate the architecture here. But the metro runs efficiently. There are signs and announcements in English. The multiple day passes are great value.;5;March 1, 2020
You should definitely do a self-guided tour of Moscow Metro. Do some research and off you go;This was our last day in Moscow and we had only 2 things on the docket, Metro tour and Gorky Park. We started the day with a self-guided Metro tour. Moscow has the busiest metro system in Europe and also has some very beautiful stations with interesting architecture.;4;February 29, 2020
Foreign visitors! Do you want to know why people died for the USSR, fighting Hilter? Then visit the Moscow metro.;Foreign visitors! Do you want to know why the Soviet people died, fighting for the USSR, died for Stalin, fighting Hitler? Look at the metro. Years back, the USSR built underground palaces for the people, not for oligarchs, they glorified the athlets - Dinamo Metro Station (Green line), achievements of the Soviet People in aviatin - Mayakovskaya (Green line), partisan struggle against the fascists - Belorusskaya (Green line again), sacrifices of those who overthrew the tyrant (Ploschad Revolutsii, red line) and the promising future of young people - Komsomolskaia (circle line).  These underground palaces in comparison with which Buckingham Palace looks like a bus shelter, were for the people, by the people.  This was when money did not rule this great country, when we had no homeless, no junkies, when we had a future. Eveyr time I visit the metro, I am reminded how greedy and ungrateful we were to ruin our beloved country.;5;February 25, 2020
Got to see these;Amazing. Possibly the highlight of our trip. Most of the star stations are along one line. Check out before you travel although Metro is easy to use. Suggest you buy a Troika card and load some money for your journeys. Currently 40 rubles a journey flat fare.;5;February 24, 2020
Probably #1 attraction to see in Moscow;Regardless of the fact, you are traveling alone or in a group, reserve another hour or two for the magnificent Moscow tube. Started in 1937 near Sokolniki park nowadays Moscow tube is the absolute giant, yet stunning significant complex, which handles over 6 mil people daily. When we speak about the beauty of Moscow undergrounds, do not forget your camera, do not take any big bags and keep an eye on your belongings always. Moscow is still a big city, there are some pickpocketing, probably of the same intensity, you would find in London, NewYork or Berlin. Still, Moscow's vast CCTV makes you more or less relaxed. Extremely effective. And yes, they speak English there.So, take photos, shoot videos and amuse! Station to be visited 100%:1. Mayakovskaya - famous for its ceiling mosaics, need good optics though2. Ploshchad Revolutsii - find the bronze dog with a shiny nose, wipe it again and make a wish! Look at those authentic sculptures, stunning, aren't they? 3. Novoslobodskaya - fantastic glass looking vitrages on the columns taking your breath away4. Komsomolskaya - Mosaic ceilings everywhere, very soviet style5. Pak Pobedy - also famous for its design, which commemorates II Word warEnjoy my Moscow!;5;February 23, 2020
Its a must do;did a recommended route of the metro to see the beautiful architecture and was not dissapointed in slightest was to say the least amazing .amd a cost of less than 50p This piece of moscow has to be done;5;February 22, 2020
Fastest & most efficient metro we've ever ised;The Moscow metro is not only the most efficient form of travel in the capital city, it's practically an art installation all its own. If you're not rushing to catch one of the trains that arrives every 57-98 seconds, take time to examine the frescoes, mosaics, murals, statues and friezes that adorn the central stations or circle line platforms.;5;February 22, 2020
Amazing;Each metro station had it's own special charm.  Some were more extravagant than others, but in general, they were all spectacular.;5;February 19, 2020
Efficient and inexpensive;Efficient, clean & inexpensive and with clear English markings and announcements also very user friendly for the vistor.;4;February 17, 2020
Moscow metro;safe and easy to use, when you arrive at the station you are taken by the beautiful statues, it’s grandness and its cleanliness!;5;February 15, 2020
Unbeliveable world-class metro;If I could give this a 6 or 7 star rating, I would. You will never see this anywhere else in the world and that's why, the Moscow subway stations on its own are popular tourist attractions. Its also very cheap and you could visit every single one of them for next to nothing provided you dont exit any of the subways. So take the time to visit one subway station at a time and take as many photos as you wish...well worth your itinerary. Tip: its much more convenient getting around Moscow with their underground train network. Limit the use of Uber at night.;5;February 12, 2020
a clean safe and efficient wat to travel around Moscow;cheap and easy to navigate the system runs with trains every 2-3 minutes. the trains are very clean and each Station has a theme and style which are almost worth a visit in themselves. Also the depth and length of the escalators is amazing, russian engineering at its best!;5;February 12, 2020
convenient and astounding;Moscow metro has the most beautiful station. Metro in not only convenient and cultural it is clean and simple. Stations build during the soviet era circa 40-50s are pieces of art with monuments, sculptures and mosaics. Definitely worth visiting certain stations.;5;February 12, 2020
Still decorated for New Year in February;There are few places that have the fairytale feel of Red Square, especially when it’s dolled up with a holiday market, ice rink and carnival rides. We just finished riding the trans-siberian railroad visited so many magical Russian places. Nothing beats these pictures at night.;5;February 11, 2020
Very efficient transport.;You can get almost anywhere around Moscow by the Moscow underground subway. Trains come every 30 seconds in rush hour and every 2-3 mins the rest of the time.;5;February 2, 2020
Surprising;If you want to go from one point of Moscow to another by underground espect to meet not just a train but a entire architectural and cultural world with a lot of interesting details. I was interested in the old stations that steel keep the USSR atmosphere. The map it's simple to manage. The price and the speed it's very good especially in comparation with the ground ways.;5;February 2, 2020
Impressive Moscow Metro;Each Metro station is individually decorated and has a theme reminiscent of this country's history. We were impressed at how immaculately clean everything was, very spacious walkways and platforms, modern trains, signage in Russian and English, assistance in English, cheap fares (38 roubles for a single journey), trains run frequently and on time and very safe;5;February 1, 2020
Different metro station different theme;We only managed to visit 5 stations by hopping on and off trains. Every station that we visited have different theme. Very unique and different from any other metro station in the world. Some stations are more lavishly decorated than others. All are nice in their own way.;4;February 1, 2020
The best siteseening opportunity when you dont like the weather.;In case you don't like it raining or being too cold or anything else you really don't like outside but want to stretch your legs and at the same time spend time learning to see and see something new and definitely beautiful and grand you can go to the Moscow underground. Last years it is growing so fast and the new stations are appearing like the mushrooms after the rain. Every station has its own style and beauty. As soon as Moscow underground has free wifi you can google the history and all the usefull information about the station itself, its decoration and its architects.;5;January 27, 2020
Excellent;Take the underground metro to other stations to see the beautiful platforms. Clean, patrolled by police and worth the look. Travel costs are minimal. Stations worth the visit include Mayakovskaya,Novolobodskaya, Arbatskaya.;5;January 26, 2020
Amazed!! Must try;I come from a small city called Dubai where the metro is pretty simple and people generally chose to ride a cab or their own car. For someone from Dubai, Moscow Metro was like a Pandora box. Very efficient and convenient to travel and reach any part of Moscow without getting stuck in the famous Moscow traffic :) If nothing else then just be amazed by the extremely long escalators taking you down and up from the trains. Don’t be surprised if you don’t see the end of the escalator while boarding one. And, the architecture is not to miss. Forget the museums, Moscow Metro stations are an art in themselves. I wonder how people don’t stop by and just be amazed by the art that some of the metro stations showcase. I wish I had the time to do a city tour of just the metro stations all across Moscow and look at the beautiful artwork done.;5;January 25, 2020
One of The best in the world;Maybe because i use to study in Moscow for 5 years i love it so much because was the best time of my life , but actually my daughter when visited it she said the same the nicest metro in Europe, its art and museum all in one plus very useful to travel from one part to another;5;January 19, 2020
Each station it's a work of art;Pay attention to trains. Too fast and many people. A train arrives each 60seg. Photos only between trains unless you want to get thousands of people on camera!;5;January 14, 2020
Is it a subway system or museum?;The Moscow Metro system is considered one of the most beautiful in the world, and it is a well-earned reputation. The stations are all different and all amazing. Some show their age a bit if you study the details, but none are run down. The stations are clean and well designed, and most all signage and announcements in the trains is in Russian and English. There is no better way to get around the city.;5;January 13, 2020
Unbelievable decor;We visited 5 stations and each one had different decor. They were all amazing, each with different stories to tell.;5;January 10, 2020
Challenging but worthwhile;Try to buy a ticket at the machine or desk. no Egnlish but you will manage. Try to buy a carge card for RBL 60 and add ike 10 check-ins to it. cost you like RBL 500 in total and you can share with more people the 10 rides.there is some English on the signs. maybe download the Yendex.Metro app and it will become a little bit more easy to travel around the stations. After 2 rides it becomes more clear what the logic is in this system.Never hurry, every 2 minutes a new metro train. Some stations are very nice indeed!;4;January 10, 2020
Interesting;Definitely place to go and see. Hard to imagine any country where metro stations are built in way its in Moscow. Some artwork from Soviet Union and some mosaic art here end there. You might get a chance to travel with new metros but same time place will take you back in time...and if you get old school metro, experience will blow you away!;4;January 9, 2020
Practical and efficient;A bit of a language problem unless you download the app. you need a few trips to get the hang of it. VERY PRACTICAL very cheap and efficient;5;January 8, 2020
Dont miss it !;A place which is more a gallery than a metro station. The best of the Soviet art which can be seen easily by stoping at some of the metro stops.;5;January 8, 2020
Good value for money;Cheap, runs almost everywhere, 0pen 05.00-01.00, Tickets are available at all stations also at ATM:s Beautiful architecture. English signs. Stations are announced in English.;4;January 8, 2020
Very interesting;It's worth using the metro in Moscow. Some of the stations are very beautiful and look like a museum.;5;January 7, 2020
Truly something to experience;I live in NYC, and take the metro every day. I've taken the metro in many countries that have been nice, ie: London, Thailand...Nothing like Moscow.One ride costs 35 rubles; less than a dime to ride!You can purchase a Troika card at stations when you arriveMoscow has the most beautiful Metros, hands down.  They look like palaces, complete with chandeliers. You can take a tour of the Metros, which we didn't have time for, but we were happy to ride the Metro every day while visiting.First let me say, the metro stations are CLEAN! They are well lit, and safe. Do not be afraid to ride the metros in Moscow.  They are extremely efficient, and you will not wait more than 2 min for a train.The metros themselves are clean, air conditioned, and they have WIFI.An easy way to get around, in a city with a TON of traffic.  And I say this as someone who lives in NYC. We were picked up from our hotel and taken to the US Ambassador's house; this 2.5 mile journey took almost 2 hours driving. Take the metro.;5;January 7, 2020
Mansions for the masses;The metro tour takes you to metro stations which look like palaces. It is built during the peak of communist regime, as palaces for the people. Some of the metro stations are so deep , it serves dual purpose of underground transit and nuclear bomb shelter. They say you can evacuate entire moscow in 15 minutes to these underground stations. Stations have chandeliers, paintings , sculptures, just like a museum. these items are reminiscent of the communist past, with sickle and hammer donning the prominent places. Novoslobodskaya metro station looked like a church from inside, with glass paintings resembling a roman catholic church. but these paintings are of general items and communist symbols. Truly worth a visit. By taking a Troika card, you can visit all these metro stations for just Ruble 38 which is just over half a dollar or may be 40-45 indian rupees. Unlike Delhi or indian metro, In moscow metro, one has to swipe the card only at entry for a standard fare of Ruble 38 and no need to swipe at exit. so you can keep changing stations to stations in the underground without exiting for just 38 rubles. And yes moscow metro trains show maps which has russian and english inscriptions and the announcement is also in russian and english. So no problem at att.;5;January 6, 2020
Monument alive;As everyone says the Moscow metro is beautiful, reminds history and soviet design. Every station with different theme.;5;January 6, 2020
Metros are amazing;Spent so much time taking pictures of the stunning metros in Moscow as I travelled back and forth seeing the sites. What struck me most (apart from the glorious art) was how clean they were with no graffiti.  I just kept saying WOW!;5;January 5, 2020
The most beautiful transit system in the world.;Most cities around the world have terribly dingy and ugly public transit systems.  The Moscow metro system is a true work of art.  Such a unique and beautiful facility to visit.  Wish I could have spent more time looking around.;5;January 5, 2020
An Art Fiesta..Underground!;Few would expect a Metro station underground to be such a visual treat ..but the Moscow Metro is exactly that! I believe that it is one of the most beautiful Metros' in the world and one should take their time to explore the whole place leisurely..slowly..its worth it.;4;January 4, 2020
Just make at least one trip;Definitely make at least one trip. Great stations represent great example of hight quality Soviet-Russian creativity and quality work. Choose good timing to avoid rush hour.;5;January 3, 2020
Reasonably priced and very convenient;Lovely metro stations, very efficient and punctual network, very reasonably priced.. architecturally beautiful structures. Get a metro guide and plan a trip to some of the more beautiful metro stops.. there is no need to go on a group tour as it is very easy to navigate by oneself at one's own pace and leisure.;5;January 2, 2020
Never thought public transport could be so beautiful;Took a guided tour, perfect to familiarise yourself with the history, local stories and buikd confidence so you can venture out on your own. Simple, affordable and beautiful.;5;January 1, 2020
Great experience;They have many lines and it is very easy to understand it if you have a map of the subway. Some of the station are really Impressive.;5;January 1, 2020
Moscow Metro a must see;We had the pleasure of visiting the Moscow Metro. What an amazing place. Some stations had stained glass windows, some full size bronze statues. I have never seen such beauty in a metro before.;5;December 30, 2019
WOW;The Moscow Metro puts the NYC MTA to shame.We took a metro tour on a weekend and were impressed on how often the subway runs, how clean it is and just how beautiful the stations are.It really is a very impressive system and the Art Deco and grand stations from the Stalin era were wonderful to explore.If you live in a city with a subway you will be impressed by this system.;5;December 30, 2019
An amazing art gallery.;More than 80 years old, the Moscow Metro is one of the marvels of the city.  Our tour guide made us hop on and hop off at every station of the Metro to view the marvellous sculptures and paintings that depicts life of old Russia and the royalty. It was awe inspiring and a wonderful experience.  Truly amazing as one felt that we were at an art gallery and not some railway station.;5;December 30, 2019
Museum underground;Almost 300 stations ... I have not seen everything ... In appearance, the stations can be divided into two groups - “old” and “new”, the classification is conditional, but ... Old ones are like palaces or churches - mosaics, frescoes, carvings and fretwork. New - represent a modern style. It makes sense to plan a route in advance so as not to get confused in the intricacies of lines. The best time to visit is early morning or late evening, as during peak hours, the metro is crowded with hurrying residents of Moscow, and in the afternoon - by numerous groups of Chinese tourists.;5;December 29, 2019
The most amazing metro in Europe;This place looks more like a museum than a subway station. A must while visiting Moscow. Never breaks down!;5;December 27, 2019
Opened in 1935;We had a tour of the beautiful Moscow Metro, Opened in 1935 (13 underground lines and 206 stations). The stations were ornate. The variety of marble colours such as the Burgundy, was super beautiful, I loved the Chandeliers. This is the most amazing Metro I have ever seen. We started our tour from near the Four Seasons hotel and ended up at the Kremlin. SEE photos.;5;December 26, 2019
Comfortable, fast and cheap;Almost any part of Moscow can be reached by subway. Keep in mind that transfer stations carry different names, for different lines.;5;December 24, 2019
New Year 2020 in Moscow Metro;Looks like every Moscow metro line has its own New Year train :) These photos are from the brown circular line. And I’ve seen today another one on the red line. The press says that the Metro will be functioning throughout the night on December 31. But it doesn’t mean one can drink champagne right there, the transport police is on duty, too!;5;December 24, 2019
Easy to use, cheap and marvellous stations to look at.;This is probably the best way to get around Moscow.  It is easy to get tickets and easy to use the metro. Famously the stations each have a different theme.  They are very clean and each a work of art mainly quite typical of the Soviet Era.  All the best sights around Moscow can be reached by the metro.;5;December 23, 2019
beautiful;I have never seen any Metro station anywhere in europe and other countries I have been before, its amazing art, design etc;5;December 18, 2019
A must-visit when in Moscow;Go to as many of the stations on the inner circle as you can. They are literally art museums and all are different from each other.;5;December 18, 2019
Breathtaking!! Most important stations;Visiting the metro is an absolute must. Our Kremlin guide kindly put together a 2h tour for us, which we could do easily by ourselves. Our tour looked like this: Novokuznetskaya to Mayakovskaya (green line) to Belorusskaya (green line) to Novoslobodskaya (brown line) to Prospekt Mira (brown line) to Komsomolskays (brown line; AMAZING) to Kurskay (brown line) to Ploschad Revolyutsi (dark blue line) to Teatralnaya (dark blue line) back to Novokurznetskaya. You just get off the metro at each of these stations and take in the beauty of those platforms and then go either back into the train or change lines. The metro is incredibly clean, safe and just stunning. Everything is labelled in English too. We were advised to avoid the rush hours.;5;December 17, 2019
Beautiful, efficient, clean, and unbelievably inexpensive;A single fare is less than a dollar (around $0.88). If you get the Troika card a single trip cost a measly $0.60. The stations in the central part of the city are underground. The entrances are marked with a large red M. Taking the wooden escalators down to the platform is almost like you're traveling back in time 50 years. Many of the stations are ornately decorated and remarkable clean. There is absolutely no need to run for any train since they come every two minutes. At rush hour they come even more frequently. Al most all of the signage has English translations even stating which direction the given train goes (northbound, southbound, etc.). On the trains, the stations are announced in both Russian and English. The male voice means your headed towards city center. The female means outbound.   Even the many of the ticket booths have signage stating that "We Speak English" making it simple to get a Troika card or single trip tickets. All in all it is one of the easiest Metro systems in the world to navigate for an English speaker.And to top it all, many of stations themselves are works of art and architecture.  There are many internet sites that will map out an itinerary for visiting many of the more beautiful and interesting stations. You can visit as many as you want all for just $0.90 or you can take a guided tour for 20-30 times that single trip fare.;5;December 15, 2019
Two hours journey;We visited:Park Kultury (Line 1)Mayakovskaya (Line 2)Ploshchad Revolyutsii (Line 3)Elektrozavodskaya (Line 3) Pobedy Park (Line 3) Arbatskaya (Line 4)Novoslobodskaya (Line 5)Kievskaya (Line 5)Komsomolskaya (Line 5)Most of them using the circular line 5We had a great time for photo opportunities as there weren’t much commuters before 11 on Sunday.Do your homework and print home information about each station to maximize your time and look for the important details.;5;December 15, 2019
Excellent Metro service;The Moscow metro is a cheap and quick way to get around Moscow given that the roads are so congested. Signs, ticket machines and announcements are in English as well as Russian. You can also use contactless cards to tap and go so no need to buy a ticket if you are happy to use contactless on the gates. One of the security chaps was very helpful to point this out to me despite not speaking any English.Trains are fast and prompt if a little old.Some of the stations are just spectacular!;4;December 15, 2019
Beutifull;I was stunned how beautiful their Metro is. And I must say it is more organized than U bahn in Vienna, because it tells you where to go, where to walk, where to change stations, where to go from which station... And if you have Trojka card it is cheap.;5;December 12, 2019
Buy a ticket and just hop to each station on the brown line;Sensational. For the cost of $1 you can take the metro and view the underground metros with each station having a truly unique look. Don’t exit. Just hop off the train, walk around, then hop back into the next stop. Check out some pics of some station but keep in mind, these photos don’t do it justice. Well worth spending an hour to take a look. Once done, exit any metro. All for the cost of $1.;5;December 11, 2019
Moscow Metro is fun;One can easily spend couple of hours watching the decorations of a few stations. Even locals, if they are not in rush and have to wait for their partner, have fun to study numerous pics and sculptures over there as it were a visit to a rich-man place );5;December 10, 2019
Beautiful Stations & Extremely Effective;Everything  good you've heard about the Moscow Metro is true.  We usually take public transportation when we travel abroad, but I was a little hesitant to try here because of the language barrier.  I can honestly say it was never an issue.  After our first day we were very comfortable taking it all over.  Stopping at some of the more famous stations was just incredible.  They are museums themselves and if you are not certain you want to try this, then at the very least take a tour,  This is a not to be missed experience.;5;December 9, 2019
A frighteningly large system but easy to negotiate.;Our guide took us on the Metro to begin with and then most everyone in our group felt comfortable enough to use it on our own. Once you enter as long as you don't come out you can ride the Metro all day. We found people were very kind and quick to give up their seat when they saw us entering using a cane to walk. As a Senior citizen I felt comfortable in using this transportation. The art work in some of the stations was beautiful. There are paintings, mosaics, stained glass, marble and more. Highly recommend using this way of getting around Moscow.;5;December 4, 2019
Stunned by the views;Amazing and one of INA kind metro stations experience. I have never seen such a beautiful way of decorating stations where the history is told and the art is exposed at the same time in such an exquisite way.;5;December 1, 2019
Beautiful architecture;This should be on everyones bucket list! All the metro stations have their own history and story. The whole metro system is incredibly clean and easy to navigate. I would recommend installing the metro app on your smartphone and take time to enjoy the Moscow metro system.;5;December 1, 2019
Quite unique metro experience;Moscow metro is quite unique place in regards of layout of the stations. You feel like you stepped into history and some of the stations are really belong in the museum instead as part of the active public transportation.Metro is convenient and easy to use. Frequency of the trains is great you don't have to wait longer than couple of minutes so no need to rush to catch train.;5;December 1, 2019
Extraordinary;I’d read about the stations before we came but they are unbelievable, spent an afternoon going between them, so many are like museums. Also the system is incredibly easy to use.;5;November 30, 2019
Moscow underground city(Moscow metro);surely Moscow metro is one of the top attraction and destination in Russia and whole of the world .every station has its own special story ,the story of formation idea in kingdom period in 19 century ,but the church stopped it till after first world war ,then we have big fundamental and political changes in Russia .during the communist period when Stalin was on the throne they started the metro project 1935 they opened metro in moscow .it is eye catching .if i want to say something for Moscow metro ,i should say it is a museum .you can see the contemporary history of Russia there,Russian superstitions and so many beautiful Russian stories.;5;November 30, 2019
incredible architecture;This is well worth a look, recommend a local guide so you learn the history and see all the stations - i was amazed at how clean the stations were;5;November 26, 2019
MOSCOW metro;It is really amazing. There are several stations that look like an art museum.I went according to  a list of lines and stations;5;November 24, 2019
Overrated;Nothing special unless you are deeply into Soviet history. Clean and hygenic but extremely extremely crowded anytime of the day.;4;November 23, 2019
Beautiful stations in the city center;Moscow offers one of oldest metro systems and some stations in the central location are the most beautiful I ever seen. Others are just standard stations. Subway is crowded and Russians are quite rude walking any direction so you might find it unpleasant. The train frequency is really high. Comparing to London, Paris, New Your, Sidney, Istanbul, or Philadelphia, metro in Moscow is good way of transportation.;3;November 22, 2019
Moscow tube;Tube stations, to view the Soviet gems ,take the circle line, also known the brown ,line 5, and make stops at each of the stations.Note that if you go up the escalators, you will not be able to turn down into the station  without paying.  Stupid system.;5;November 21, 2019
Where Soviet architecture meets the modern;A unique place to see soviet era decor and art. Yet Moscow Metropoliten is growing fast and new stations are build continuously, some of which are also beautifuly designed. Easy navigation within the metro and change to rail.;5;November 21, 2019
Only kind words;Not from the usual patriotism, but as a person forced to use the Moscow metro almost daily, I can  say only kind words to its adress. If earlier it was possible to praise only the punctuality of the movement, the design of individual stations - both in terms of aesthetic merits, and about the materials used in the decoration, it is now impossible not to note the fact that the Moscow metro is developing very quickly and dynamically, but not to the detriment of the already existing advantages. Lines are extended till the previously remote countryside, new circle lines appear, the pass system of passengers became more understandable, convenient and efficient. Unfortunately, the inconvenient interchange nodes can not be altered, but there are alternative options to get to the desired stations.;4;November 17, 2019
Metro that is an Art Center.;The Moscow Metro is a wonder. It remains as one of the important placesin Moscow as tourist attraction. The underground metro is very deep, over80 Meters under the ground. The trams run fast and the frequency is something like30 seconds. The stations are artistically decorated and we feel as if we are inan art centre; the history and culture of Russia are depicted in each station. Surprisingly the stations are very very clean.;5;November 14, 2019
not what I've imagined;Overloaded by the people. Very very very warm and stuffy.Rather dirty and the smell... of people and trains and hot rubber... Better visit it on weekends.;3;November 13, 2019
Awesome design;The underground metropolitan was very classic and artistic. Every station with different design and colour. It’s very impressive. People can understand how the Russian so rich and powerful during the period of time when it build. That’s amazing!  Can’t miss when visiting Moscow.;5;November 12, 2019
Practical;The subway is very deep and high speed escalators are used.  This is unlike any subway I've seen except in Kiev.Trains run fast and frequent.  Signaling is good and the metro is a great way to travel around the cityEvery station is decorated with memorials or Soviet era art.  No cost seems to have been spared for marble staircases, chandeliers, stained-glass, and other decorations.;5;November 10, 2019
Beautiful!;This is not only a metro, easy and great way to travel in Moscow, BUT it is an open air museum as well in my opinion. The architecture is unique and shows some of the great history and grandeur of Moscow. A must visit place.;5;November 9, 2019
Best understand trains and stations;One of a best tourists visit in my russian tour. Wonderful stations understand. Many designs. Better you take a good camera, so you can get 100 of eye catching photos and videos. If you have russia guide you can learn more as i did.;4;November 6, 2019
Cheap way to travel.;There are many interesting Metro stations around the city centre.The architecture is interesting and shows some of the old grandeur of Russia.The Metro is a very cheap way to travel all around Moscow. A ticket was 55 Rubles (less than £1), and allows travel all over the Metro, with no restrictions on distance covered.It was easy to use, and if you do go wrong just jump on next train. The signs are in English as well as Russian, as were the announcements.The trains were all on time.Also it was all incredibly clean, as is the rest of the City.;5;November 6, 2019
SO beautyful;It is an experience to ride in the Moscow Metro. We had carefully selected a number of stations we wanted to see and they are after all amazing beautiful. It is cheap to drive in the Metro and if you remember:1) towards the centre, it is a man's voice announcing the stations name and 2) on the way out of the center it is a women's voiceThen you are well helped on the road in which direction you drive against. Our kids loved the long escalators.;5;November 5, 2019
most beautiful metro in the world;there's so much history and design in Moscow metro. All stations are different. My favourite is Trubnaya;5;November 4, 2019
Amazing;Amazing place every station different cannot recommend this enough with the trains dead on time , clean , safe and efficient;5;November 4, 2019
Shame on NYC Transit Authority;Ride the subway in NYC. Then try the Moscow Metro. You may never go back to NYC. The Moscow Metro is clean, fast, orderly, on time, precise. The stations are more like museums with beautiful sculptured art to enjoy. Don’t leave Moscow without visiting the Metro.;5;October 31, 2019
Metr❤️;It is one of the things you don’t expect. We took a guide ( really worth it)We stopped at 10-15 places and they are all different and so beautiful ... a must;5;October 28, 2019
Fast and cheap ;);Russia 2019 some Metro Moscow : Novodmitrovskaya,  Mayakovskaya, Novokuznetskaya, Elektrozavodskaya, Komsomolskaya, Prospekt Mira with 55rub you can see all these beauty. If you want to see the video I did after the visit, go to YouTube and after the .com type this text /QoFxzM8dx7o;4;October 27, 2019
Not too bad, quick .;Quick and very convenient way of getting around Moscow. Ploshad of Revolution station looks like a museum with all these monuments ,though quite busy to my taste.;4;October 27, 2019
The metro is amazing;I would recommend a Metro station tour with a guide showing you around.  If you wish to be adventurous you could grab a map and a 55 Rouble ticket and go yourself. It is easy to forget you are on the metro and not in a palace.;5;October 26, 2019
Underground Splendor;An art gallery that's a subway. A magnificent place to behold.and not to be missed. Having lived with the NYC subway system, I'm applaud at what I put up with seeing what it can be. Truly spectacular, clean and a delightful way to travel..;5;October 24, 2019
The World most beautiful metro stations;Our tour brought us to 5 Moscow metro stations-Prospekt Mira, Komsomolskaya, Novoslobodskaya,. Kievskaya &  Smolenskaya.The metro station in Moscow is a tourist attraction and artistic monument. The station is like miniature palace with chandeliers, sculptures and lavish mosaics. Komsomolskaya is a Baroque-style station and has bust of Lenin. Novoslobodskaya station is famous for its stained-glass panels. Kievskaya features iconic-styled pylon with mosaics. Very impressive and highly recommended to visit.;5;October 23, 2019
What a fun place to explore- but watch for pick pockets;I think it would be best to have a guide to take you to the stations that are highlights.  The art and history at particular stops is really quite amazing.;5;October 22, 2019
Go and see this!;My husband hates underground trains - really enjoyed this one. Timing is everything- avoid morning and evening rush hour. Great advice and information on Russiau.com. This blog also gives a lot of detail about the individual stations, architecture etc. We visited this by ourselves. There are information points in some of the metro stations ( could be all of them but we were only in 6) the signage is in Latin text and verbal announcements are in Russian AND English. It was great. It is not expensive- 55 roubles for a single pass ticket, again the ticket vending machine has  English as an option. A tour would probably give you more information but we loved doing this by ourselves!;5;October 22, 2019
Beautiful;This has to be one of the cheapest self guided tours in Moscow and some of the stations are absolutely magnificent. Komsomolskaya, Arbatskaya and Ploschad Revolyutsii are particular highlights but there are many more worth checking ut. A very worthwhile hour or two in Moscow.;5;October 21, 2019
Must do!;Clearly the Russians created an underground  museum! The marble and the pure art is all around. Even during the soviet era! Glamour and easy to use you need to have a tour on your own. The noise from the trains is a bit too much but they come every minute and the tour can be quick and very interesting! Remember.. You go deep down with the escalator.. Make no mistake on this one..;5;October 20, 2019
One the most beautuful subway systems in the world;Do not miss the chance to visit some of the subway stations in Moscow. The architectural style will definetely suprise you. Engineering masterpiece  without doubt. Thank you for this great experience.;5;October 20, 2019
Amazing;Firstly the metro system itself is excellent, never more than a couple of minutes wait for a train and so cheap, it really is the best way to get around Moscow.As for the stations themselves they are visually appealing with each of them (on line 5 I believe) having a different style, from marble columns to bronze statues to glazed effect windows.  We took a bridge to Moscow tour and took in the metro as part of it, although saying that you will undoubtedly see a lot of the stations just with everyday sightseeing travel.It seems strange to recommend going to underground stations as a must see if in Moscow but they genuinely are.;5;October 18, 2019
Must do a subway tour;The whole subway is amazing. I would strongly suggest a tour though as then you understand what is the meaning behind the architecture in the stations;5;October 17, 2019
Stunning;We had several rides on the metro during our short visit to the City and each station made you gasp at the beauty of the art works. and how clean all the stations were. London Underground eat your heart out!;5;October 16, 2019
Spend an afternoon visting Metros! Seriously amazing!;Sounds almost ridiculous but most of the metros are amazing to see and the fact that it cost 40 Rub to get into them... it's a very very cheap afternoon;5;October 14, 2019
Very efficient transport system plus stunning art;Once you get the hang of it the Metro is quite easy to navigate. The trains are very frequent and fast, and announcements on the trains are in English as well as Russian. It's all very clean, there's no litter and it feels safe. Every station is different and the art and architecture is amazing. I thought the best station was Ploshchad Revolyutsi which has numerous bronze figures plus bronze dogs and people rub the noses of them for good luck.;5;October 12, 2019
Simply beautiful;The metro stations of Moscow are like elegant historical art galleries. But they are quite busy.A must visit for first time tourists to Moscow.;5;October 12, 2019
Chandeliers in the Metro!;We arrived at the height of rush hour but had no problem getting thru the crowds, and boarding the very clean efficient Metro. The statues and Chandeliers add to the wow factor. Wonderful experience.;5;October 11, 2019
Best metro;Brilliant experience as a transport, very nice for visiting as a tourist. Old central part is very beautiful. Do not miss 2WW-bunker on Taganskaya;5;October 10, 2019
Beautiful, a work of art;Really enjoyed seeing and taking the metro, well worth seeing the different station, especially Revolution station.;5;October 9, 2019
Comrade Kaganovich Metro  - that's exactly what the authentic name;You have to understand what the subway was like in an evil empire. It was a temple for the crowd, not a mode of transport.so the beggars had to see what their lives would be like in the future.  so the gold of marble and rare stones in Stalin's subway stations - It's almost a museum.;5;October 9, 2019
Amazing.;Worth the effort. Hire a guide, it’s not expensive. Each subway station has a different historical significance. That is why a guide is really necessary . Our guide was excellent (Elina). Her Russian historical understanding and English were excellent. It takes around 2 hours to cover most of Moscow Metro.;5;October 9, 2019
Beautiful;The metro stations of Moscow are unique,  very beautiful and rich in details, as well all the marble walls and floors;5;October 8, 2019
STUNNING;To visit and ride the underground metro system is simply breathtaking and an experience the entire world needs to see at times you just stand still and admire the architecture and shear wealth in the surroundings the Russians have so got this right and functional;5;October 3, 2019
Easy sightseeing;I did the metro visiting by myself: for 55 rubels I spend 2.5 hours to visit and photograph the loveliest subways. There are about 9 you should definitely check out. The trains come every 1 minute so you can get in, out and take the next one to next station.;5;October 2, 2019
'underground' art;you might be very busy getting from A to B, but don't despair - Moscow Metro offers you free art exhibition while you are on your travels!each station has a character, and is beautiful in its own way, welcoming you to the Moscow 'underground'(literally) art :-);5;October 1, 2019
Metro tour;Definitely worth doing with a guide. Our guide explained the history behind each stations theme. The artwork and sculptures were superb. Felt more like visiting art galleries than metro stations.;5;September 30, 2019
a must to see;The Moscow Metro stations- are places of great cultural attraction and historical interest, real Palaces. It is better to have with you a friend or a local guide to get a full appreciation;5;September 29, 2019
Moskovskiy Metropoliten;Easy to navigate, beautiful stations, clean, well decorated, clear announcements, trains run regularly with no delays. Great way to get around. Would suggest to buy their "Troyka card", more reasonable than one time pass.;5;September 29, 2019
Metro System Museums;We got on to the circle line and just got off at loads of different stations then back on the next tube train to another station and did the same again. All beautiful stations, well worth a couple of hours looking.;5;September 28, 2019
MUSEUM;It's just great !! Very clean, safe, very cheap. You go down to the stations and just admire it.....you should definitely go , I highly recommend it.;5;September 28, 2019
Ummmmm nice but.....;That's so good to understand why they created a beautiful and huge metro, see the local life by sitting at the bench for a while^^;3;September 27, 2019
Art gallery underground;Who needs to go to an art gallery when you can just go on the subway. Extremely cheap to travel, clean and easy to use. With the amount of traffic on the roads the Metro is a no brainer. But the best part is the paintings and architecture....stunning.;5;September 24, 2019
Once you work out how it works, it's really worth visiting and using it.;We did the 'free' Moscow Metro tour very early in our visit, and this really helped us to start understanding how to use and get the most out of the metro. There are a number of metro stations that are really spectacular in decor; do the tour. Then take the time to study the route maps, put a big circle around your 'home' station on your paper map and learn its name in English and Russian script, then buy a one-trip ticket for 55 rb and head off to a destination. If you end up going in the wrong direction, get off and walk across the platform and come back again. There are route maps on all the trains, and a Russian/English announcement about each station as you arrive. Worth the struggle.;5;September 24, 2019
Beyond Belief;The Moscow subway is amazing... beautiful, clean, efficient and so brilliantly decorated as well as cheap to use;5;September 24, 2019
Amazing architecture;This is one of the more visited stations but not necessarily the most ornate...still gorgeous. Many good tour guides available;5;September 23, 2019
Stunning;The art/glass/sculpture work is amazing. As a group we were taken specifically to see various stations. Just amazing. And spotlessly clean.;5;September 23, 2019
Fabulous !;No comments ! Go and look. I'd recommend you to take a train and visit different lines and directions as far as possible from Centre of the City. In this case,you'll see modern and old stations.Taking an account,that 15 years ago there were terrorist acts,all stations have security guards and equipment for scanning personal belongings.This is understandable and protect passengers. Old trains do not have air conditioners.People open windows and it makes noise. WiFi and cell phones work everywhere.Speed id high.TV-monitors are in new trains and show funny or neutral (nature) video + historical facts for education.It's cool !;5;September 22, 2019
Useful and an work of Art;There are not many cities in the world where a metro station can be a tourist attraction, but Moscow it is.;4;September 20, 2019
Love The Walls;This was certainly an interesting experience. It begins with that very loooooooooooooooong drop down the escalator. If you have any issues with heights, just don't look down the first time. And people hurry down around you. Oh, my!!!!!! The trains are fast and come along so rapidly.Great experience.;4;September 18, 2019
Not just a subway but an art museum.;Clean, efficient and inexpensive to travel the city. The art is impressive. Having been in NYC subway a week before, this was immaculate in comparison.;5;September 18, 2019
Travel in style (so cheesy I know);My apologies on the title but that’s the first thing I thought of when writing this review. I mean where else can you travel by subway and most every stop you get off at look like an art gallery?   That’s basically the experience you’ll get. If you’re on a budget then buy the single pass (~40-50 Rubles or 80-90 cents in US dollars) and hit all the sights as well as return back to your hotel without leaving the subway system. Transfers to different subway lines are free unless you stray out to the outer ring subway line (line 14) but there are no artistic stops on that line so why would you? If you can splurge or like to get out and explore the local neighborhood in between stops then my advice is to buy an all day pass (good for 24 hours from time of purchase) for 240 Rubles. It’s money worth spent and equates to <$4 for the ticket. For those who want to blast through the tour, my advice is to download a picture of the subway map, highlight all the stops that you want to see (all of them are on or within the line 5 ring) and go. Subways run frequently enough that you won’t wait long for the next one. You could probably finish it all in an hour or so. My favorite was the stained glass stop. You can’t miss it as you can see some displayed as the subway is pulling into that stop.;5;September 17, 2019
Beautiful Metro Art Deco;Be wary of other people. This place is underground metro is used by locals. Worth visiting. Take time to check the murals.;5;September 17, 2019
This is a must see and do in Moscow.;Comrade Stalin got the ball rolling for the railway to be built, and the first stations and line were completed in 1935, and added onto afterwards.I had seen some of the stations on a tv travel show once, and for both of us to check out these unique stations was a must. The majority of them are on the circle line, which also crosses additional lines that also have a number of brilliant stations to view.(the Fili line, and the Arbatskaya line). With an entrance price of 55 ruble, you can travel about from station to glorious station as long as you do not leave the station until you have seen enough. The artistry is amazing, the ceramics are incredible and you may finish up with a crook neck after staring at the ceiling displays.My personal favourite were the bronze statues of the Russian working classes on display at the Ploshchad Rev. station. Quite incredible, and all taken from working men and women of their day. Just bear in mind, the Russian rail system moves 9 million people a day, so it can get a little hectic, and remember to stand on the right on the long escalators!;5;September 17, 2019
People’s Palace Moscow;The metro stations are called people’ palace and there are nine of them.They are really built like underground palaces and the are work is wonderful. We had visited 4 and each one was different. It’s a most amazing place and a Must visit place for anyone who visits Moscow.;5;September 15, 2019
What a train station!;Moscow and Russians should be proud of what they have achieved after fighting so many wars. The Metro stations were showcase for Sovites. They are well maintained. Absolutely spic and span.;5;September 15, 2019
Impressive;Every ride on the Moscovit  metro is not only always on time as it rewards you with an extra piece of art emphasizing the soviet revolution, its heroes and the people of USSR;5;September 15, 2019
Amazing;A must see, the beautiful Moscow subway stations in the town center..  such beauty.  Lots of marble, sculptures etc;5;September 15, 2019
STATE OF ART;This an easy and cheap ay to traverse Moscow. The central stations are a work of art. The ornaments are the history of RUSSIA. The trains arriving each 60-90 seconds, therefore very efficient. It is a must do when you are there;4;September 13, 2019
Amazing Metro - just amazing !;A lot of the Metros in Moscow are simple works of art.....I think there are about 30 that are of special interest.  Any guide book/internet will list them.  All extremely easy to get to as the Metro system is easy to follow as notices also are written in English.;5;September 12, 2019
Sasha from Sydney Australia;I visited the Mosmovskiy metro , Belaskaya metro and Tveskaya metro. I actually travelled everyday with these metros in August 2019 when U stated in Moscow 14 nights and November 2019 for 4 nights .The metros are a must to experience in a life time . The are like museum's, with outstanding paintings and sculptures. You can is some in my photo's.;5;September 11, 2019
A must;Amazing stations and really reasonable we got a day pass and used it so many times. No advertising in the stations on the steep escalators once underground amazing columns, Mosiacs , sculptures , statues and stained glass. Maps were really easy to read and the trains were very frequent and efficient. Really worth getting off at some of the stops and exploring the stations.;4;September 10, 2019
At least this one works;Coming from London where every day there’s a “signal failure” somewhere along some of the lines (just spin the wheel of the signal failures to pick your daily choice), this one actually bloody works!!! Trains come every minute at pick hours and they are never packed like they are in London (by the way, even Moscow is a big city so no excuses here). Unlike London, you can breathe inside the trains and not dying from the heat (yes the baker lol line). And it’s cheaper! This makes me wonder what tfl does with our money if Moscow is able to run trains every minute for 50 cents a ride. You do the math.Oh yeah drivers are also paid less than the drivers of the London Underground again where does my money go?!?;5;September 9, 2019
The Best Way to Traverse Moscow;If you're intimidated by the Cyrillic text, fear no longer.  Since the FIFA World Cup a year or so ago, the metro maps and signage are in both Russian and English now.  The maps are easy to navigate, and the verbal announcements in the car are also in English as well as Russian.  Once you figure out how to make the transfers between lines the first time, navigating the Moscow Metro will be a snap!;5;September 8, 2019
Efficient and inexpensive, it’s the easy way to get around Moscow;For anyone familiar with the London Underground, the Moscow Metro should pose no problems.  The different lines are numbered and colour coded and all announcements on the trains and in the stations are in both Russian and English.  The ticket machines are also available in English; just press the EN button at the start of your transaction.  If you’d rather speak to someone, most of the ticket counters have signs proclaiming ‘We speak English‘, so you shouldn’t go too far wrong.  It’s worth printing out a metro map before you go; they should be available in the main stations but they’d run out when I asked.Some stations are decorated in an opulent fashion and it’s worth stopping and looking at the decor at some of the best ones.  Travel on the metro system is cheap and trains are clean and modern although, as in any city, it’s advisable to avoid rush hours as much as possible.;5;September 8, 2019
A must;A few trips on the Moscow metro is a must when in Moscow.You can spend about 36 rubles, 50p, and ride around as much as you like. On almost every train we went on, someone stood for my wife to have a seat, and on one a young lady offered me her seat! I must be looking old! Check the quite books for the best stations to visit.;5;September 7, 2019
Amazing experience;What a beautiful set of stations and each one with its own character. And the highlight was how they were all bunkers and can function as one today:);5;September 5, 2019
Impressive Subway Station;A visit to Moscow’s subway is an unforgettable experience. The artwork of sculptures and tiled images is amazing. The subway is an efficient service and it needs to be with over 15 million people in the city each day. A short trip between two stations was memorable. Not sure that we expected this in Moscow but were glad that we did.Thanks for your vote.;5;September 5, 2019
The most beautiful metro in the world;If you don't visit the metro station you wouldn't understand what I mean. It's a really beautiful experience;5;September 4, 2019
Worth just going to see it;We stayed for only 2 days in Moscow but had the subway visits in our To Do list. The best part of our trip was subway hoping and seeing some over the top Magnificient stations such as Ukraine, kiev,... stations. Propaganda and brainwash style marketing could see from miles away if you are not used to that culture. The abundance of food, good healthy kids, education, women rights,... were part of those propagandas. I loved walking and looking at all the artfully done details of mosaics and statues. So unique. Definitely worth just taking the subway to see these amazing artworks of an era of the world history.;5;September 1, 2019
Beautiful metro staions;Moscow metro system has a lot of beautiful stations making your journey a great experience while visiting Moscow.;5;August 31, 2019
Beautiful;The art in the circle line metro stations was beautiful.  Like going to a museum.  The subways are clean and safe.  Really enjoyed going on a walking tour through the metro stations.  This is a must do for all tourist.;5;August 29, 2019
Breathtaking!;Amazing and breathtakingly beautiful! So many of the subway stations were filled with art, chandeliers, paintings, sculptures, recessed ceilings ..and ever so clean ! We had an amazing time on a rainy day!;5;August 27, 2019
Amazing facts!;If you just ride from station to station it becomes  very crowd, but if you have guide you can visit many interesting stations with beautiful art work, marble, glass and many mosaics from historic soviet union period. A lot of statues and crystal chandeliers. Very unique experience!;5;August 26, 2019
A Must See In Moscow;The day before we visited Moscow, we had toured the metro stations in St Petersburg and were blown away by how beautiful they were... well Moscow was even more amazing.  It’s worth spending an hour or two traveling to the different Metro stations and seeing the beautiful tile work, spotless trains and stations and beautiful lighting and artwork.   It’s cheap and safe to do on your own, but a guided tour might help you get more out of it.;5;August 26, 2019
Metro theme-based trains: Red Arrow;When you are riding the metro, the trains may be just trains… Or they may be educational trains, telling you about our history, art or science. I’ve heard there is a new train inspired by donating blood campaign! The oldest is the ‘Red Arrow’ train on the red metro line. One of the stations here leads you to Leningrad railway station, and from there to Petersburg. The ‘Red Arrow’ is a very popular night train, I think, it’s as old as the metro - over 80 now. The train is indeed red, not blue, as most other metro trains, with vintage interior. Good for a selfie :));5;August 26, 2019
It's worth for you to visit it;Before coming to Russia, I heard my father mentioned a lot of time how beautiful the metro station in Moscow is, and I must visit some famous stations. I did not understand why and also did not do any research in advance. However, when I came to Moscow and went to a Park Pobedy station and was impressed with its decoration, architectures. Then, I have decided I should visit some good metro stations. It's worth to visit it. You can go there by yourself instead of taking a tour. You only need to download the Moscow metro app. They have the history and all information you need for each station. I, myself, went there alone to discover every place of the station and took as many time as I can.;5;August 26, 2019
Spend time there;Buy a ticket for 55 Rubel, take your time and travel the Metro. Hop off in some stations and enjoy the beauty. I was blown away.;5;August 25, 2019
Don’t miss a tour of the Moscow Metro;It is the amusing part of our visit to Moscow. Amazing interiors and no adverts!!!Suggest booking a guided tour even if you feel confident to venture on your own to get the most out the visit and quirky anecdotes- especially missing images of Stalin!;5;August 23, 2019
Must see;By passing from some stations on my way and looking at the pictures of Metro, I thought, well this is not as special as they say, but you've GOT to make the tour, even on your own, find a selected route and enjoy the art.;5;August 23, 2019
Many Museum-like Stations in the Moscow Metro System;The Moscow metros wowed me when I first visited them in 1983 and impressed me once again in June 2019.  There are many stations with special decor and are worth an underground tour, traveling from one to others when you visit Moscow.  Some of the more impressive: Mayakovskaya, Teatralnaya, Ploshchad Revolyutsii, Komsomolskaya, Elektrozavodskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Arbatskaya, and Novokuznetskaya. Be prepared for a fast escalator ride.;5;August 22, 2019
Not your average metro;A good experience of what life on the underground could look like.  Expect lots of people and lots of walking up and down but worth the visit.;4;August 21, 2019
Beautiful;It's breathtaking.  If you can, get to some metro stops while in Moscow.  If possible, I'd recommend taking one of the private tours of the metro given by a local.  Very informative - you can learn a lot in just a couple of hours.;5;August 19, 2019
A Major Attraction in its own right !!!;Seriously efficient mass urban transport system !  Just enjoy the extraordinary architecture, decorations and art work featured in many of the stations.  Visitors probably outnumber 'normal' users of the metro system at some of the more elegant stops.  Great !  and a cheap way to get around Moscow.;5;August 18, 2019
Beautiful design;Ornate and beautiful. It was built in the Stalin era. You can visit his private rail connection. It is a bit noisy and the trains run frequently.;4;August 18, 2019
one of the best in the world;Moscow metro is not only an extensive and comfortable  transport networkIt is also striking in its architecture stations;5;August 16, 2019
AMAZING;The Moscow tube is a must , to be visited.Very clean and safe.All what you can imagine was done here. A pass for a day is recommended.;5;August 15, 2019
The most beautiful tube system we have visited;We have always heard so much about the Moscow tube system and you really must visit.  The nations were immaculate and clean, tidy and safe even at night.  Tiled floors, marble, chandeliers, stained glass windows, bronze statues etc etc.  A definite must in Moscow and very cheap.;5;August 14, 2019
Wow;Is More a museum than a metro. Full of history and beauty. Enjoyed every side of it. Very cheap transportation.;5;August 14, 2019
Fast, On-Time, Historical;The Metro in Moscow is one of the best public transportation systems in the world. It is large and goes out to many of the 'suburbs' of central Moscow. For the visitor, one must take the line that has several stops featuring Russian history: there is a stop honoring WWII heroes; a stop with over 60 bronze statues recognizing everyday Russian people doing tasks (miner, fisherman, educator, etc.) and more. The Metro is very reasonable (about 55 Ru) for one way and you can buy a day pass (which you should do so can ramble about town). Try it.;5;August 13, 2019
Excellent and Cheap;You have to experience travelling on the Moscow Metro to perfectly describe it:  architecture from a bygone era, marble walls and ceilings, very deep escalators with original lamps, wood panelling.  Good to get around and cheap: just follow colours for routes.  Announcements on trains in English and Russian. Probably one of the best systems in the World;5;August 13, 2019
Underground Cathedrals;Go on a night tour of the Moscow underground they said - Really?  Absolutely yes - Known as the peoples palaces the key stations in the city centre are absolutely amazing, from Stained glass to bronze statues and art deco stations - very easy to use and understand and the metro announces all stations in english as well as in Russian - amazingly clean and tidy - best underground I have been on anywhere in the world.;5;August 13, 2019
Fast and cheap tranport to hot spots in Moscow;Suprizing various architectural layout of Metro staions. No English subtitle of stations and / or diections;5;August 12, 2019
Underground also a landmark;Moscow’s underground is an historic relic. Dozens of old lamps light beautiful painted ceilings sustaiend by awesome classical columns.;4;August 9, 2019
Mrs Minal & Mr Vivek Mhatre;Loved it. Very exclusive and informative. Behind every mural, painting, sculpture there is an interesting story waiting to be heard. Dont miss it!;5;August 9, 2019
Efficient system & some very beautiful stations;The Moscow metro has around 360 stations & 14 lines and is the lifeline of the city. The metro which started in 1935 is still expanding. During rush hours, the trains arrive every minute.  The compartments are clean and neat. The only downside for me is that the signs are only in Russian. Some of the stations are so beautiful with chandler's, sculptures and paintings which make this metro so unique. A must see for any tourist.;5;August 9, 2019
Who would Have Thought;Using the Moscow subway system was great. It is very efficient. Very deep!. And some of the stations are just amazing to look at. It is also CHEAP!. Best way to get around the city;4;August 9, 2019
An architect's dream!;Stood right at the periphery  of this marvel & admired the precision & the symmetry. Spotlessly clean & beautifully maintained.;5;August 8, 2019
Definitely interesting;Must see. The subway is famous, old and deep. Although most of the trains are very very old, not comfortable and have no air conditioning. Very disturbing loud noise. Some of the stations are beautiful and worth to see. Every 2 min there is a train coming, if not even sooner. Good transportation method.;3;August 8, 2019
komskomolyskaya station;l enjoyed being at this station and l likened it to a wedding cake with icing on o it.  It's a must go area, visit it and feel the breath taking atmosphere around it.;5;August 7, 2019
Best metro in the world;Best metro for things to look at for sure - and clean, fast, safe and reliable as well.  Lots to look at above ground in Moscow as well, but would highly recommend looking round the metro system as well, especially if the weather above is inclement.  3-day ticket is a bargain (especially compared to London!) and covers busses/trams as well.Favourite we saw was Ploschad Revolutsii but there's so much architecture, art, sculptures etc. at almost all of them.;5;August 7, 2019
Excellent public transport system;I have been using the Moscow Metro for 12 years now and, while it was always good, the system has been and continues to be modernised and extended and is now really easy to use, even if you don't speak or read Russian. Everything is now signposted in both Russian script and in the Latin alphabet that most of us can read more easily. The stations in the city centre are beautiful, as are the more recently opened stations in the suburbs. Some lines have new trains with aircon and tv screens, even sockets to charge mobile phones. Trains run every minute or so during the extended morning and evening rush hour and you would rarely have to wait 5 mins except very late at night. Tickets are cheap - you can get day tickets for tourists or multi-ride tickets depending on your needs.;5;August 7, 2019
Train stations as a tourist attraction?";I had never thought of railway stations as a tourist attraction until I saw the Moscow Metro. The artwork, sculpture and architecture are magnificent over the half-dozen stations that I visited. Also the cleanliness was a feature.;5;August 6, 2019
Spectacular Subway Stations;Some old subway stations in Moscow look like palace’s galleries, most of them constructed during the Soviet  years. These particular stations have paintings, sculptures and enormous chandeliers all with a Soviet era reference. You should plan an itinerary among the hundreds of stations and look for them. Some of them are close to historical sites or tourist spots.;5;August 5, 2019
Beautiful;Very beautiful stations. So different from each other and so interesting. I recommend if you have time to visit some stations.;5;August 4, 2019
Very easy and safe;It's very easy to travel via metro in moscow it's very cheap and safe. You can buy tickets for 3 days and see all Moscow very easy.  The metro stations its beautifull;5;August 4, 2019
Unmissable!;Fresh off, so to speak, from that open sewer that is the Parisian metro, it took me a while to realize how clean, safe, beautiful, and unforgettable the Moscow subway is. On top of that, it's cheap to use and easy to navigate through.;5;August 4, 2019
Amazing tourist attraction;I’ve visited Moscow last week; for a whole day I decided to go and see all the metro stations specially the ones in the brown line; I cannot explain how much surprised I was!! Such a lovely places with awesome designs and paintings; It’s really worth it to take times and spend a joyful experience there.;5;August 2, 2019
Amazing - a tourist attraction in its own right!;The metro stations are just beautiful - ornate and stunning, all different and even the smaller stations are lovely. You can spend hours down here and the price is the same (55 rubles) no matter how far you go, how many stations you see or how long you're there. Such a cheap tourist attraction! We looked up the metro tours to see which stations they visit and then just visited them ourselves as we didn't have time for a tour (although wish we had, we would have learned so much and probably missed a lot of detail visiting them ourselves). The metro system is so easy to use and understand. Make sure you look for directions to different lines of the floor if you can't spot them on signs. Also, remember to rub the nose of the dog in Ploshchad Revolyutsii for good luck!;5;August 2, 2019
Simply Fabulous;Not only fabulous but a cheap way to get around. I think there are around 11 or 12 lines and it beats the hell out of traffic jams. The station histories vary from some used as bomb shelters to celebrations of the many ethnic groups that make Russia.;5;August 2, 2019
Nothing to compare in the World. Must see place.;Useless to describe.  Just go and see ...Important to see central stations.Ploschad RevolutsiiKomsomol'skayaKievskayaEtc.;5;August 1, 2019
Not just visit it... use it!!;If you ware with a tour they will take u here, take some photos and leave. I hope you have time to walk around and more important use the system to visit another stations. Amazing!!!;5;August 1, 2019
Impressive metro stations;Russia has the best metro stations in the world!! I was impressed with the art and how clean they are.;5;July 31, 2019
Elegance;This was a nice surprise not to miss if you visit Moscow. A tour guide will be able to explain the specifics of how the underground system was built and the reason behind its elegance and extravagance. It is said that 200 babies were born in the underground during WWII.;5;July 30, 2019
Use it;First of all its the quickest and cheapest way to move in MoscowSecond it's very beautiful and definitely worth a visit;5;July 30, 2019
Well worth seeing;We got on the Metro and travelled in a anti clockwise circle on line 5  getting off at every station, wonderful, the stations are so posh and very clean.;5;July 29, 2019
Go on a Sunday morning;If you want to look at the decoration - statues, friezes, murals, mosaics, tiling, lights etc etc. There's a list of recommended stations- Kievskaya, Arbatskaya, Revolutsii Ploshad, Komsomolskaya, Park Pobedy, but most stations will have something to see.As regards getting around, the Metro is very good - fast, frequent, extensive. Bear in mind that near Red Square, stations are quite close together and it may be quicker to walk. If you can use the metro without changing lines (except in a few cases - Kievskaya for instance) you will find you save a lot of walking. Platforms are deep - the longest escalator I went on was about 220 steps with a subsidiary escalator of 80 more. Buy a Troika Karta - 50r - like an Oyster card - and add say 50r for each ride to expect to take. Although they often speak some English, if you don't know the Russian number, just write it down and show the cashier at the Metro ticket box. I used the metro much more than I expected - this is a sprawling city distances between stations can be significant. I used the metro a lot late at night but always felt safe. That said there are warnings about pickpockets, so as everywhere else in the world, be aware!;4;July 29, 2019
A highlight in Moscow;We found the ride around the Metro stations fascinating because of the Soviet era architecture and murals at a number of the stations. There's no particular need to do an organised tour although these presumably offer some useful background information. It's a good idea to do a little planning before you start - my wife came up with a list of 6 or 7 of the most decorative stations and we worked out which lines we should be catching, the appropriate direction etc. I might add, the underground isn't particularly difficult to use and a single, inexpensive ticket lets you travel around the various stations provided you don't go upstairs and through a barrier. BTW, I'd seriously consider the trains rather than taxis in Moscow. We caught a taxi from the main train station in Moscow after a trip from St Petersburg on a Sunday and the traffic was as awful as the guy we had driving us!;5;July 29, 2019
The Underground Metro Stations Tour is "MANDATORY VISIT" for tourists in MOSCOW, Don't miss it.;One of the most amazing tours we had in Moscow with the guidance of Maria, our tour guide, was the metro stations tour.                                                                            The Underground Metro Stations are a must visit for tourists in the city. Most of these stations look more like an amazing art museum than an average subway station.   The mosaic flooring is Stunning, also the decorated Ceilings with historical pictures at other stations, amazing sculptures and many other attractions.                                                                                                                    In my opinion, it is highly recommended to take a guided tour to get explanations about the main and most beautiful stations because behind each station a different story that cannot be understood alone without guidance, and then for those who are not satisfied with the beauty, to continue independently at other stations according to the guide’s instructions. Just a wonderful experience. One of a kind in the world.Highly recommended. Don't miss it on your trip to Moscow;5;July 29, 2019
Metro is the hidden gem of Moscow;You need to do the Metro with a tour guide to really learn all about it.  We went from stop to stop and toured the amazing architecture of each underground area.  Truly amazing that this was done in the communist era.  We would include this on any trip to Moscow.;5;July 28, 2019
Amazing decorations;Mayakovskaya, Komsomolskaya and Taganskaya are the most famous stations in the Moscow metro. If you are in Moscow and get around by metro you are bound to hit these three at some point so no need to go there just to see the decorations. Just keep an eye out for these three when you go from one point to another. Most stations are wonderfully decorated. Havent seen anything like this anywhere else.;4;July 28, 2019
Just beautiful;We visited this metro station as part of the Metro Station tour. Highly recommend the tour, the metro stations are underground art galleries. Each is different and the train travel as part of the tour is an experience too.;5;July 27, 2019
Very good underground metro system;One of the best underground metro system. Very clean and lots of history carved on the walls and roofs of the stations.;5;July 27, 2019
Moscow Subways a Must See;One has heard about the subway stations in Moscow but until one actually experiences them, it is hard to believe that subway stations would rival museums. The stations are full of mosaics, paintings, and sculpture.;5;July 26, 2019
Must visit;Try to visit the most famous stations as they are true palaces.  where is different station from another, with a lot of art, impressive chandeliers, statues, would have far-fetched, vital, divine panels and floors.  Look for a physical tour to understand the history and curious facts behind this meter that is a true work of art.;5;July 24, 2019
Few hrs of riding on subway;Moscow metro is great. From old part to new futuristic looking one. It has very cheap tickets and digital display's helping you in the train plus Russian/English voice guide about current and next stop.;5;July 23, 2019
Russian history etched in the beautiful Metros of Moscow;One of the largest, cleanest and busiest subway system in the world opened in 1935. Moscow’s Metro reveals the city's turbulent past through its architecture, design, and historic artworks displayed within. The stations are decorated with frescoes, marble columns, ornate designs, chandeliers /fancy lightings and historical monuments. Some of the most beautiful metros were built in the 1960s and therefore full of Soviet Art.  The Soviet symbol of sickle and hammer are found mostly in almost all the stations – one can lose count of it.Arbatskaya metro is one of the longest station. Completed in the year of Stalin death, 1953, this was to be a bomb shelter.  The decoration is Baroque style with bright white walls and arched ceilings decorated with ceramic fruits and flowers and glazed tiles and bronze chandelier for lighting.Komsomolskaya metro is the largest pillared station. One of the most imposing stations named after the young communists also known as "Komsomoltsy".  Its theme of design is the historical Russian fight for freedom and independence.  In the middle of the ceilings there are eight mosaics depicting the heroic deeds of Russian Generals.  Ploschad Revolutzii is like a hall of fame with bronze statues of Soviet people from different walks of life.  Many Moscovites believe that the mascots can bring you luck.  The main mascot of this station is a dog.Kievskaya metro built into the Kiev Railway Station has beautiful arches and mosaics depicting early Ukranian life. Kievskaya is a major transportation hub as the station is on the three lines of Moscow metro.Novoslobodskaya metro was designed in ancient temple architecture with beautiful stained glass window which were bought from Riga.  The stained glass panels were designed with flowers, plants and birds, some with Soviet cultural workers and few with geometric designs.Belorusskaya has a beautiful white panelled ceiling decorated with Belarusian motifs and marble arches depicting Belarusian life.Mendeleevskaya built in 1988 is situated near the Russian Institute of Chemical Technology.  Chemistry was used in the design of the station. Prospekt Mira a beautiful metro station near the Botanical Park of State University.  Therefore the theme in this metro is to do with development of agriculture during the Soviet era.The Moscow Metro can be very confusing for a first timer in Moscow as there are double and identically named metro stations.   Therefore, one must make sure that they are travelling on the correct line to see these stations.Lastly, most of the metros were constructed during the Stalin regime but there was no Stalin in the Metro Stations.;5;July 22, 2019
Great transit system;This is a great transit system that is very efficient and safe. Each station is also very nice looking and some even say are museum like.;5;July 18, 2019
Is a MUST in Moscow;If you visit Moscow you must visit and travel with Metro to see at least the most famous stations.Do noy miss it;5;July 17, 2019
Beautiful metro!;Bought a one-day-pass and did a self-guided metro tour.  This is one of the prettiest station. Worthwhile visit. Moscow's metros were so clean and well maintained. A pleasure to travel via these trains which ran as frequently as 2-3 min per train at the platform. Not much waiting time for the next train, so no hurry to get into one if you missed one.;5;July 17, 2019
very very calm and with no advertising at all!;impressed by the fact that though it is Russia, you get a very good WIFI signal (for free! even though you are 50 meters underground) plus as an occidental you would be very surprised to not see you piece of advertising. it is so relaxing for the eyes...;5;July 17, 2019
Moscow metro -a work of art and effcicient method of travel;The train carriages are clean as are the stations and platforms. The trains run frequently and you can see on each platform how long until the next train. Each of the city center stations are a work of art. Each has a separate theme and it's woth finding a guide to explain these themes. Avoid visiting during the rush hour. You can't truly visit Moscow as a tourist without visiting the metro stations. I recommend: Smolenskaya, Korskaya, revolutsii, komsomal prospekt.;4;July 17, 2019
So Impressive;The vaulted ceilings, chandeliers & marble make this station very impressive - despite the masses of people passing through here on a daily basis it is relatively clean & well maintained.;5;July 17, 2019
Must do metro tour;A must do tour if you visit Moscow. The metro stations are stunning works of art. The art itself gives you a great insight into the history of the place and ideologies over the years;5;July 17, 2019
Most Amazing Metro in the world!;The Moscow Metro is by far the most special, gorgeous, effective, and huge metro I've every experienced, in Europe or elsewhere.Visit its stations ("palaces of the people") and take your time.  No need to rush, as there are trains every 30 seconds! :-);5;July 16, 2019
Moscow underground;Moscow underground stations are beautiful in themselves before venturing above ground.  Every one is based on a theme and decorated accordingly.  Beautiful chandeliers, paintings, stained glass and statues.  An attraction in its own right.;4;July 15, 2019
Book a metro tour to appreciate it;Everybody knows Moscow metro is amazing. However to appreciate it more, book a tour where you learn all the important things and will understand the frescas, statues, pictures, ornaments, decorations, etc. Before the tour I was using metro but didn't find it as interesting as after the tour. It was beautiful anyway though but even more beautiful after the tour. So go for it :);5;July 14, 2019
Beautiful metro and efficient and frequent trains;We went on a metro tour on our own relying on the information in the net.  It is best to go at weekend (not at rush hours) or after 9pm weekdays as it is less people and you can see the metro station properly.They are absolutely beautiful and each one is different from the others.  The trains are very frequent (every minute or 2), clean, efficient but it is a bit noisy like the Metro in New York.  If you are not going out of the station, you do not need extra tickets.  You can buy tickets in the machines with cash or by credit card and they are also in English.  Definitely a must for visitors in Moscow.  Just amazing!;5;July 14, 2019
Moscow is amazing!!!!;We stay one week in the courtyard by Marriot city center!!! The hotel is very near the red square, a lot of good restaurants near... we went to a free walking tour and the guide give us information about rest with Russian food we lived!!! If you want see the mausoleum of Lenin(is free but close 1 pm) go earlier 9.am to the line and the same to buy ticket to see the Kremlin.... the taxi in the airport I bought inside and cost me 1.300 r . Very good price !!! The same to return I asked the hotel a good price taxi and I paid the same ( give tip!!!!) anyway the tour in the metro we look google and choice the best stations work very well!!! They are amazing!!!!the Aeroflot was wonderful good service like 5 stars (we are in economic and my husband use a cane don’t walk well) the flight arrive in Miami 30 minutes before!!!! We like Moscow more than St Petersburg maybe because we stay there before in a cruise!!! Excellent museums ,they do t speak English but is easy to communicate and they help me all time!!! Spasiba!!!!;5;July 13, 2019
Unforgettable a must see!;It’s  overwhelming and surprising !It’s a  Journey in history, culture and in understanding much more of the Russian nation. Before we came to Moscow I wouldn’t use the term unforgettable but rather say that it sounds strange to think of an underground trip as an option but ... after the visit in 8 different stations I say it’s one of the top highlights of our 8 days visit.Make sure to take the time to stay a while in some of the stations ( see people today (2019) actually touching  statues with the belief that it brings them luck. The revolution station was the top but others are also part of this puzzle;5;July 13, 2019
Wonderful;The metro tour is a very good one to do.  We did it with a tour. Our tour guide took us from station to station explaining about the art work. It was a pricey tour in comparison to what you can do on yr own with a bit of homework.  Once you enter the metro for less than a dollar you can stay inside hop on and off stations and come out staight on to the red square if you want. Do this tour only in the evenings when there is less crowd.;5;July 12, 2019
Art in the most hectic setting;The famed Metro of Moscow where some stations were constructed with artistic renderings do offer visitors a nice slice of Russia. It  will be good to have a guide explain the significance of the renderings/images or else it will be just a nice looking metro station.;3;July 9, 2019
Like visiting a museum;The subway or underground lives up to its reputation as it is clean, and a piece of art with beautiful chandeliers, frescoes, large bronze statues, marble, etc. the trains run very frequently and as soon as one leaves, there seems to be another one in a matter of minutes. They do have English speaking people to help you get tickets as well as English vending machines. And the fares are very reasonable as this is the most frequent use of transportation for the locals.;5;July 9, 2019
A tourist attraction in its own right;First impression was of a ticket desk with the announcement board that English was spoken. Certainly an improvement on many stations in London. The standard of cleanliness would not have been out of place in the wards of a hospital.We used several trains and various station, each being displays for works of art in their own right. No advertising hoardings, no graffiti, and an excellent service on the trains.Arguably the high point in our visit to Moscow.;5;July 8, 2019
Wow;Our home country does not have a metro, so I enjoy cities that have them. I am always fascinated by the people who can stand motionless with the surge of the train, and of course the mind numbing activity ( phones).This underground metro has many short stops and as I recall is built in a circle around the city and is continuing to be built out further into the suburbs.  The metro carries many people and I don’t think there is much need for vehicles. I don’t quite understand the traffic ( which to me wasn’t that bad as our own rush our traffic- albeit we do drive a little more safely haha).We took a private tour and wow. Many stations, as you know are ornate. Some have many bronzed statues and some you can run for luck or a long life. Easy to spot the rubbed statues.There are beautiful arches and hopefully your guide can show pictures of where Stalin gave speeches. Some line  (I forgot) was built specifically if turned into an underground bunker of sorts and people would live in there during air strikes.Our tour was quite short ( 2-3 hours) but there is so much to see and photos to take and history to learn.Choose a guide that can deliver all of that, as it’s not just about the majestic- there’s reasons. Which I won’t spoil for you.Taking the metro by yourself is easy, the hardest part is off the train and which exit to take!;5;July 7, 2019
Underground Marvels;In Moscow, one must see the underground stations of their transport.  Each station is unique in decor, lighting and extravagance. Each station tells a story of Russian  glory.  These range from bronze statues to crystal chandeliers, stained glass/porcelain, to paintings and statues of all walks of Russians. It is very unique to find all this grandeur in a subway system with all the hustle and bustle.  MUST SEE!;5;July 7, 2019
Best transportation in the town;Moscow metro is easy to use, cheap (0.60 eur per trip), you can pay with a credit card in each metro station (just look for the NFC sign on the first or the last turunstile terminal), each station is uniquely ornamented.;5;July 7, 2019
A must in any trip to Moscow;The Moscow Metro is truly amazing but I would recommend that you do a guided visit as it would be difficult to navigate your way to get to the best stations.  We had a fantastic guide who explained all the art work and taught us a lot about the metro and its history.;5;July 7, 2019
Like a palace;First place to see in Moscow. Looks like a palace. Russian subway is very clean and easy to use as all signs and announcements are translated in English.;5;July 7, 2019
incredible!!!;unbelievable -- like a museum!  Well worth the time to see it.  The escalator is quite steep and long but it's worth the ride.  Sculptures are beautiful!  Carvings in the walls are impressive.  The lighting is fabulous!;5;July 6, 2019
Most beautiful metro station ever;Truly unique metro station: if you want to see just one, this should be it! Amazingly beautiful. A must see.;5;July 6, 2019
Awestruck!;This was an amazing eyeopener about how painstakingly the metro stations were designed and executed kind of reflecting the aesthetics and the architectural brilliance of a bygone era. Enjoyed this thoroughly. Not to be missed at any cost.;5;July 6, 2019
Underground beauty;I suspect the brief was to built a metro system that was bigger and more beautiful than anything in the West! And in manifestations they certainly succeeded. It's not hard to find your way since each line is indicated in a different colour and there are lines on the floor in many stations. Not just a great and cheap way to get from A to B, it's also worth taking a trip to see the stations that have extraordinary architectural and artistic value. I recommend.;5;July 5, 2019
A Visit to the Metro - How good can that be?;Well if it the Moscow underground transit system many of the stations are works of art....they are amazing and well worth visiting. Not to mention the metro system offers clean, frequent service to many parts of Moscow at very reasonable rates. Enjoy...;5;July 5, 2019
Must see in Moscow!;Likely THE best metros in the world! Just as one was impressive, we stepped out the next and would go WOW! Each has its own history, story and impressive take of Russian architecture.;5;July 5, 2019
You must see this.;My wife and I were fortunate enough to have been given an amazing tour of at least 5 or 6 stations on 3 different lines. You cannot imagine how beautiful, well kept and filled with artistic detail the stations are. I have attached some photos.;5;July 4, 2019
Every station is different.  Try it, its easy to figure out.;I took a guided tour and had a good time but riding the city's underground subway system is a sightseeing tour in itself with huge, vaulted, marble-columned stations - some with ornate mosaics and stained glass.  I took a lot of photos.;4;July 4, 2019
Must experience;Very easy to navigate with absolutely beautiful underground stations - my daughter and I began our journey through the underground stations in the evening to avoid crowds which was a great idea as we were able to capture amazing photographs and move quickly between stations - bring your camera!;5;July 3, 2019
Metro helps to be on time;It makes sence to avoid metro between 18-19.30. Especially in Center. Office people go home. Still it is a reasonable way to be on time. and reasonable in price. If you stay a few days - buy a deposit card to avoid que and save a little money AND to show your vollet… really not easy when you change a station... If you know the name of the station and shaw direction with your hand - it may help.open pretty late in the night. till 1 o'clock;4;July 3, 2019
Excellent and impressive Art Metro;Go and meet history and Russian Art at Moscow Metro. An incredible experience in the most popular transportation.;5;July 3, 2019
The most attractive subway in the world;Nice and beautiful place,but not for high-hours,It’s good idea to visit it for the weekend or on the evening;4;July 2, 2019
Amazing place;On the one hand metro(metropoliten) is the type of transport in Moscow, on the other hand-the historical and architect monument with mosaic, statuis...I haven’t ever seen anywhere so beautiful transport!;5;July 2, 2019
Lavish train stations;The only train stations in the world which are beautifully designed! It is worth the trip and visit to every stations.;5;July 2, 2019
Very Beautiful;Clean, beautiful, easy to use!  Went on a tour of three of the stations. Really enjoyed seeing them all—and they were all quite different from each other.;5;July 2, 2019
Great looking stations, a lot of art and history;Following recommendation from friends, we selected about 10 stations to visit, mainly on lines: 3, 4, 5.Some of them are really amaizing;5;July 2, 2019
Beautiful metro and easy to use;Contrary to what I read on websites the station names are in English as well as Russian and the announcements on the trains are the same. I got a Troyka card, which is like an oyster, and topped it up with enough money to visit all the stations that I wanted to. There was no need, because all the ornate decorations are inside the stations, you need only go in the system once and out once to visit all the stations you want to and see what you want to see.;5;June 30, 2019
Stunning mosaics;Very interestingmozaics on the ceiling and the floor, highly recommended to see all of them one by one;4;June 29, 2019
What a public transport system!;It's a feat, the Moscow metro system. Of course, there's the weird and beautiful and fantastic architecture (depending on the station), but also, more importantly, it's a feat of transportation and handling huge masses of people. It's very efficient, clean (yes, often old, but still clean), and easy to navigate. Download the yandex metro app and you'll be fine.It can still happen that you take the wrong exit and end up at the other side of the street (the bigger stations have about ten exits or more), but you will still be roughly where you want to be.A note for weaker or non athletic people - yes, you can get everywhere by metro, but even within single stations, you can end up walking many hundreds of meters, up and down stairs and tunnels, if you want to transfer to another line. So if you have mobility problems, the metro is probably not for you.Anyway, I find it an amazing and an easy to use system.;5;June 29, 2019
This is a Beautiful Metro.;This is one of the most beautiful Metro stations in the world! It is more like a cathedral and all the other stations were smaller but still the same style with paintings,  sculptors and history. Well worth a ride.;5;June 29, 2019
Amazing Metro;Moscow Metro was started in 1935 with a 11 km line with 13 stations initially, it was the first underground metro line in the Soviet Union constructed during Stalin era, one of the deepest metro system in the world.Never seen such a wonderfully decorated Metro stations, walls of most of the metro stations have beautiful paintings of Soviet era, presenting amazing pieces of art. Giving couple of pictures here.The metro car in which I traveled was bit old and not modern but it was fully functional.Very impressive metro system, a must see if in Moscow.;5;June 28, 2019
Must See Moscow;We took guided tour of Moscow Metro. This tour highlights Important stations- Stations were like palaces with art work & mosaics. Looks like you are in art gallery. We were surprised to know that these metro were many floors underground & were built second world war.. Must see.;4;June 27, 2019
Amazing subway;Stalin built the first Moscow Metro in the 1930s to be grand and inspiring.  I remember reading about the system in High School.  It was a must see for me when visiting Moscow and it did not disappoint.  Only cost is a metro ticket, less than $1.00.  Best time to go is early in the morning on a Saturday or Sunday.  During working hours the subway if very busy.  Only draw back are big Chinese tour groups that can fill the stations.;5;June 27, 2019
Moscow has beautiful subway stations;Don't just ride the pristinely clean and reliable subway, but also stop at various stations to admire their beauty and grandeur.;5;June 26, 2019
increadible expirience;all around museums , I love it fall in love with moscow metro, and also with moscowi must visit one more time;5;June 24, 2019
Amazing;Worth a visit. Every journey on the metro was a delight.We were impressed with the detail and different stories each station told.;5;June 24, 2019
Stunning;No ordinary underground system, stunning architecture and one of the major sights of Moscow.Super efficient way of getting around the city too.;5;June 23, 2019
The most beautiful subway I've ever been in;It's beautiful. Real masterpiece. Each station has its own history and beauty. This is the most beautiful subway I've ever been on. Convenient to use, I advise you to be sure to take a ride a few times;5;June 23, 2019
Best subway;Quite amazing to rate a subway. But it is cleaner than I have ever seen in a subway. the architecture is amazing. The paintings in the roof. So actually the subway are part of what you need to see as a tourist;5;June 23, 2019
Simply an amazing Metro line;Each of the stations on the circular brown line is a themed station with beautiful mosaics, paintings, statues or other forms of artwork. The absolute cleanliness of the stations is noteworthy;5;June 22, 2019
Great subway!;If you're in Moscow you will use the subway to get around. But its like a museum itself! With statues, mosaics, marble. Truly a fascinating place!;5;June 22, 2019
Amazingly Clean;I dare you to find an underground system anywhere in the US that even approaches the cleanliness of the Moscow metro. The only one I've personally seen that is as clean is the Tokyo metro. Those of us who live in the US could learn a lot from these folks in Moscow.;5;June 21, 2019
Functional with some beautiful stations;Convenient and cheap way to cover substantial distance in Moscow, avoiding traffic.If you’d like to take nice photos, I’d recommend to do it after dinner. When there’s no crowds of commuters and tourists. The easiest and quickest way is to take brown/circle line - there 5 beautiful stations in close proximity to each other. At each such station there’s a well pointed spot to take a great photo.;5;June 21, 2019
Few days in Moscow;We spent 4 days in Moscow and fravelled on the Metro many times. It is an amazing experience and when we needed help to navigate our way around people were so helpful.;5;June 21, 2019
Starting journey in Moscow;My first time in Russia and the first time I experienced the Moscow metro. We took a tour of the metro system, which is one inexpensive site to see in Moscow and the trains run almost every 1-2 minutes. During rush hour, it can get packed, so be sure and be assertive when getting into the train.But it’s a "must see" point in Moscow.;4;June 21, 2019
Just a piece of art;Moscow metro is just amazing <3 no where else in the world you can see such a beatiful metro stations !;5;June 21, 2019
Must See !;We booked  online before leaving home  , a private tour with Strawberry Tours.Our English speaking guide Sevtlana was excellent.We visited 9 different stations on different lines.She was very informative and furnished us with interesting background ,  history , structure at each station, how some of these stations were used as shelters  during the war, some were libraries or used for large political gatherings .The detailed history of the statues and tiles , mosaics and how Stalin’s images were replaced.She had extra photos from her handphone to show what the stations  were like during war time etc.We were very happy with the tour;5;June 21, 2019
An underground system with class;The Moscow metro isn't just a way to access the sites of Moscow it's a tourist site in itself. Some of the stations are a work of art and it's well worth following the route in the Lonely Planet guide.;4;June 17, 2019
Gorgeous!;We went through multiple metro stations and many of them look more like 5-star hotel lobbies than train stations. We did tour through a couple, including this one. A real buried gem!;5;June 17, 2019
Hands-down most beautiful metro;The trains bring you to your destination but the Metro brings you to different worlds with the stories it tells. I’ve taken the trains of the metro stations in Japan, Singapore, Hongkong, Paris and Prague but in the Moscow Metro, I journeyed through history, making it the most beautiful metro for me, hands-down.;5;June 16, 2019
Very Pretty subway;Went to see a few stations while traveling to Red Square. Incredibly clean and tidy with amazing artwork with different features at different stations;5;June 15, 2019
Very efficient;The trains come all the time. Everything is clean and pretty even though some stations are not super new.;5;June 12, 2019
A must seen;Easy to get around and most of the station are like a museum. Take this great transportation to get around;5;June 12, 2019
Metro;Visited station on a walking tour.  Our English speaking guide was great.  Very knowledgeable in the metro and its histoy.  A must see.;4;June 12, 2019
Metro Tour;Amazing experience visiting the metro Stations,  and absolutely fascinating to see the thoughtful art designs depicting different stories at different stations. Definitely a "Not to Miss" in Moscow.;5;June 11, 2019
Nice;A nice way to spend the time (especially if it's raining). You can grasp a lot of Russian history by walking inside the stations. Very lavish and surprising. A bit difficult with a stroller because there aren't always escalators.;5;June 10, 2019
a must see!;It is a must visit place in Moscow! Actually it is  a very famous place in Moscow and it seems to be one of the most beautiful Metro sattions in the world.;4;June 10, 2019
Must visit;JUst hop into this station , it’s beautuful, so is arbatskaya.  Mayakovskaya is one of my favorite, after Komsomol’skaya  u can book a metro tour too.;5;June 10, 2019
Moscow Metro Wow Factor;I’d heard about the metro stations but until I visited I never realised how amazing they areEach station is completely different and the metro system is also amazing - trains every 2 minutesSome stations are a long long way down and it seems like you will never get there but when you do, you are truely rewarded by what you see.  A must do in Moscow;5;June 10, 2019
Visit Moscow metro!;Incredible! Just ride Moscow metro for a few hours and visit the most special station. Check Tripadvisor for list, you will not be disappointed.;5;June 9, 2019
A huge improvement;I was last in Moscow 15 years ago, and the differences are remarkable.  People stop at red lights and pedestrian crossings, the roads have less potholes and new buildings are classy.  One of the biggest improvements is in the Metro system.  Everyone knows about the beautiful stations from The Stalin era, but the system has been expanded significantly, and the new stations are also visually exciting.  A modern system of ticketing and entry/departure has been installed at all points and if you buy a “troika” it works on the buses, trolley buses and trams.  The stations and carriages are clean, and the seating improved, especially on the 100 km/hr Central Circle line, which are luxurious.  That line also has provision for carrying bicycles, which are becoming a common feature in the suburbs.In the newer carriages, there is an electronic system that shows you where you are, in Russian and in English and the announcements are clear in both languages (a world away from the London Underground!).There is a more visible security presence at all points and visitors should have no safety concerns.  At the entrances to the station there is now a better class of kiosks and cafes, where you can at least buy snacks and drinks.No need for a tour, just get lost on the system and discover !;5;June 9, 2019
Exquisite  metro;I visited only a few of the metros in Moscow and I'm in awe as to how exquisite  these stations are.. looks like the interior of a palace. I was really surprised to see such extravagance in the metro. The people of Moscow go about their business as though it dont exist because they are accostomed to it but the visitors and there snapping away with cameras because of the beauty  of these stations.This is a definite must visit when in Moscow.;5;June 8, 2019
Moscow Metro tour;This Art Deco masterpiece opened in 1938 and was designed by architect Alexey Dushkin. During construction the most modern techniques of the time were used. Instead of heavy pillars, there are high, slender columns made of aircraft steel that create the feeling of a large hall. There are also numerous mosaics based on the sketches of Alexander Deineka;5;June 8, 2019
Art Galleries Masquerading as Metro Stations !;Many of the Metro stations in Moscow, especially, the older ones , are akin to art galleries. There is a central concourse which is full of paintings, sculptures etc and each side of this concourse are the platformsThese metro stations are unique as the sea of humanity coursing through these metro stations makes for an intimate connect between the arts and peoples daily lives;5;June 6, 2019
Too busy & crowded to enjoy;The area is too crowded with people rushing to get somewhere, so one cannot enjoy it leisurely or take photos. Watch your bags, our group got pickpocketed, not a nice experience!;3;June 6, 2019
Ring Line Excursion;Super! I went to the Moscow ring line excursion with my friends from Gremany. I was the trtanslator. But we had earphones that helped me hear the guide. She was so knowledgeable about the metro, full of interesting information. The excursion took more than two hours and. Now I see everywhere in the metro and enjoy the beutiful pictures and mosaics I never actually noticed before.;5;June 5, 2019
I have not seen a more beautiful metro;All guests of the city must go on the Metro, preferably in the evening after 20-00, when there are few people. Which stations to visit? All different. Find a guide with descriptions of the history of stations and various tales of residents;5;June 5, 2019
Beautiful out of peak hours;Please avoid underground on peak hours - 08 - 10 in the morning and 17-30 - 20 in the afternoon as it is extremely overcrowded. Other times are fine to look around, fantastic pictures. Please use TROYKA card (same as Oyster).;4;June 4, 2019
Museum? Oh it's a metro;I have had traveled a lot and each city I visit is done by metro.Moscow metro stands at an other level..it is a real underground museum. Spotless, well disciplined muscovites who will give you all info needed.;5;June 3, 2019
Fun even if you aren’t going anywhere!;We got the opportunity to see and ride the Metro with a tour guide.  Really enjoyed and took a lot of cool pictures of the decorations, sculptures and tunnel decor.   Easy to navigate and I feel more comfortable to use in the future.;5;June 2, 2019
Elegant metro system;Moscow's metro system is undoubtedly one of the best decorated in the world. Many of the stations have lavishly designed paintings and ornaments. It is also cheap and convenient. All the major tourist places are easily accessible. A ride on Line 5 is particularly enjoyable.;5;June 2, 2019
Dont miss the metro;The Metros in Moscow should be part of any tourist's agenda. The 100 year old metros with chandeliers are jaw dropping....;5;June 2, 2019
History in Motion;A must see in Moscow.  Find a guide who will bring you to the highlights if you are short of time or explore them at leisure.  The stations boast ballroom ceilings and chandeliers that are endless. Each station carries a theme of Russia’s history and you need a guide to walk through the annuals of Russia’s past From bronze statues to stained glass to wall murals and ceiling frescos. All for the price of 55 rubles Pictures and videos do not do justice.;4;June 1, 2019
The Moscow Metro;Used this on several ocassions as it is a really convenient way to get around Moscow.There are a number of very interesting (from an art and architecture perspective) metro stations and worth a visit.The fare is cheap (55 roubles / $0.75 / £0.60) per trip and the service very regular.The quality of the rolling stock varies but it is without exception clean and fast.;4;May 30, 2019
Palaces below ground;Firstly the Metro is great value. One ticket (55 roubles/ 60p)= one trip no matter how long. The stations are unbelievable - marble pillars, marble walls, mosaics, chandeliers, bronze statues, etc. Do not pay for a tour - buy one ticket, take the Circle line, get off at each station, and stand in wonder. Just stand to one side, there are lots of people rushing to get somewhere. Also - no litter / graffiti unlike London.;5;May 29, 2019
simply amazing;I am amazed at the subways in Moscow, they are all different masterpieces that must be seen. However avoid peak time as you have to stand and observe each and every station as they are all different and takes time to enjoy;5;May 26, 2019
Full of History behind;Modern, good to avoid traffic and first of all each station has its own history behind. The polices do their job very well. Security checking in every single entrance. For me the safety is no. 1Welldone;5;May 26, 2019
Great nation with grate history;You can find awesome statues and history there. They touch some parts of statues (head of dog or rooster) as sign of gaining positive energy. Don’t miss them;5;May 25, 2019
Beautiful to visit ...;The Moscow metro is highly ornate, with frescoes, chandeliers and marble columns, bronze statues  ...  beautiful to see.   Worth a visit even if you do not want to use the trains.  Very clean stations and actually easy to use once you understand the different lines, which are colour coded.;5;May 23, 2019
An art gallery in a metro station!;It’s like a museum in a station. So vast and loads of artwork and mosaics to see. Probably fancier than a few museums actually! A must see on a trip to Moscow, and all it costs is the price of a metro ticket!;5;May 22, 2019
Just the best;One should not miss. If possible visit many stations. Oldest in Moscow and beautifully decorated with outstanding sculptures at every wall.;5;May 22, 2019
Metro Magic!;The Metropoliten was the first of four metro stations we visited and probably the most outstanding in terms of architecture, tiles and mosaics and lighting. The chandeliers are magnificent and the platforms are wide and beautifully tiled. A word of warning, however, the Moscow metro has some of the deepest and longest escalators in the world so if you suffer from vertigo try not to look up or down or hide behind someone taller than you! Another challenge is that the escalators seem to move faster than any others I have tried so be careful stepping on and off. However, the metro is cheap, very efficient and fun to get around on..;5;May 22, 2019
Troika Card;There are thousands of reviews on the delights of the Metro and its amazing stations.I have been most impressed with the Troika card which cost only 50 roubles to buy and is simple to load with credit.  It also means that when you ‘buy’ a journey it’s much cheaper than buying a single journey ticket (and much quicker).The card may also be used for most of the Metro lavatories and for buses and trams above ground.;5;May 22, 2019
Wonderful;Some wonderful stations and decorations that any church or fine building would be proud of. Must visit.;5;May 18, 2019
See as many stations as you can - what a wonder;Spent half a day getting on and off at as many stations as I could just to photograph.  Very easy and cheap to do and well worth the effort;5;May 17, 2019
Moscow metro;Sheer works of art in the Moscow metro. Never anywhere in the world have I seen groups just visiting the metro as part of a tour. Staff everywhere to help as well even though knowledge of English not great;5;May 16, 2019
Amazing metro stations at Moscow;We got the list of metro stations to be visited from Lonely planet and all of them are magnificent !! The whole trip took us 2 hours and got to learn so much about their history & culture ..;5;May 16, 2019
Well worth visiting a few of the stations.;OK TfL has improved the London underground but these wonderfully decorated stations make a trip on Moscow's metro a cultural experience.Bas reliefs murals and sculpture.See how many hammer and sickles you can find?,;5;May 15, 2019
metrostation of history;Very beautiful, old soviet design, pictures of prewar life of soviet people. Historical place connecting with the first part of the Great Patriotic War. The official traditional meeting took place there before the Grate Parade of the 7th of Novembre 1941.;5;May 13, 2019
Magnificent!;We have visited not just one metro but a few of them, on trip advisor you can search for top 5 metro stations in Moscow. In Kuala Lumpur the new metro line is imitating this concept and it's actually pretty well done!;4;May 12, 2019
Best metrosystem I know;Easy to navigate (even for a non-Russian speaking tourist like me), cheap, always on time, squeeky clean and some of the underground stations are stunning!Truly enjoyed using it. Compared to London, Paris, Berlin, Milan or New York: really no comparison, the Moscow underground is better on all aspects!;5;May 12, 2019
Example to all metros;Clean, beautifully decorated, fast with trains every 2 minutes and guards everywhere, the Moscow metro is great. But it doesn't get 5 stars because so many of the stations are poorly signposted outside. Some of them don't even have a M on the façade, let alone a sign perpendicular to the building. Also there aren't enough route maps in the Latin alphabet once you're in there. The metro plan on the free map we got at the hotel had Latin names under the Cyrillic ones, but in minuscule writing in a very pale shade of grey. It's as if the Russians are trying to make a point of some kind....which I took and tried my best to decipher the Russian names, but a few YouTube videos on reading Russian wasn't enough to prevent brain strain. Come on Moscow, get with the programme!;4;May 11, 2019
Nice;There is Good looking and stunning underground. Old and new stations are obligated for visiting as well. It’s very comfortable for using in Moscow!;5;May 8, 2019
A Fabulous tourist attraction;Not only do the trains arrive every two minutes, making it the best way to travel across Moscow, many of the stations are works of art. Hop onto the Circle line (Brown Line ) and get off at every station, each is a marvel of artistry and all are very different in style. There's Arte Deco glass panels reminiscent of Tiffany, Military mosaics, statues representing Russian life, Art nouveau paintings, miles of marble & Soviet imagery  and the most you will wait is 2 minutes for the next train to take you to the next stop. And it can all be done for the cost of $1.00 if you stay underground and don't exit the stations. Read the guide books to see other stations further out that are also worth a visit.The Metro is easy to navigate as its very well signposted & staff are friendly and willing to help tourists.;5;May 8, 2019
convinient way to get to Mosow;Now Metro is comfort, fast and clear. You can reach many palces in city without taffic congestion. And many architect features in decor of the stations, especially in historical centre.;5;May 8, 2019
So amazing!;Get a good map and just hop on , so easy and not crowded on weekends. The texts are also in English. Not easy to travel with luggage. Very well guarded and controlled.;5;May 7, 2019
What s good thing!!!;The transport in the world within the cities and without a doubt a very good choice!!!! Fast, sure and not expensive ❤️;5;May 7, 2019
Best metro;During our visits to different countries we have gone on many forms of public transport, none of which are as good as the moscow metro we took many journeys on a 3 day ticket for 438 rubles or £5.50.;5;May 6, 2019
a necessary 'evil' which is actually a blessing;Almost impossible to avoid using the metro in such a big and busy city but the stations are incredible and worth a visit anyway, the directions are quite easy to understand and it is a shame such a fabulous urban travel experience is not available in every capital city.;5;May 4, 2019
Magic railways;If you want some magic in your life, visit the Moscow Metro. Great art, charming chandeliers, and a magical atmosphere. Trains every 2 minutes at less than a pound a journey.;5;May 2, 2019
Clean, fast and huge;The metro is the fastest way to get around such a huge city like Moscow. The historical stations are not only big and clean, they are also monuments of art and architecture. But the most impressive were the new trains:air conditioning, interactive map of metro that can be consulted in English and Russian, USB chargers for phones, electronic and voice information regarding the route, in one word it's wow compared to what it used to be.;5;April 30, 2019
End of the Line;Moscow’s metro stations are one of the most beautiful anywhere you can explore these very ornate metro stations for the price of a metro pass, remember rush hour;5;April 29, 2019
Shame on NYC Transit Authority;Ride the subway in NYC. Then try the Moscow Metro. You may never go back to NYC. The Moscow Metro is clean, fast, orderly, on time, precise. The stations are more like museums with beautiful sculptured art to enjoy. Don’t leave Moscow without visiting the Metro.;5;April 29, 2019
Beautiful!;Impressive metro station, a number are worth visiting.   Buy a single ticket and you can ride around looking at them all.  About 80p GBP for single ticket, worth an hour or so. Avoid rush hour if you can.;5;April 29, 2019
You have to experience this!;Recommended for everyone. It might be confusing at first, but as soon as you understand the principals, it is not worse then the one in London or Paris.;5;April 28, 2019
Best metro ever!;I have used many subway services across the world. Definitely, the Moscow metro network is the most beautiful of all. The stations are huge, although sometimes they get crowded. Many of the stations are real masterpieces, like if you are in a palace. For example, the stations in the brown line are really nice. Komsomolskaya station was the one I liked the most. It is like a palace!;5;April 27, 2019
Very clean and impressive!;Worth a visit. Take a couple of minutes to discover the Moscovite underground. You will not regret it.;5;April 25, 2019
Great;Dive in and enjoy the whole experience.Cheap great fun way to get around.  Love all the different stations and found the staff helpful.It can be a little confusing at times but just enjoy the experience knowing your are travelling throught a great tourist experience  and will always find your way back in the end;5;April 25, 2019
Most Beautiful Metro in the World;Of course, my favourite is Partizansnkaya Station, with the sculptures of Zoya Kosmodenskaya and the group of partisans at the top of the stairs. Also, Park Pobedy and the museum itself. Go ready to spend the day there!;5;April 24, 2019
Forget the decor- the trains arrive every 2 minutes- great seervice;The Moscow underground is decorated in a style which was fashionable 100 years before the Metro was built and decorated. Each journey costs less than .50 euros. Amazing. every city in the world should have a system as efficient as this one.;5;April 23, 2019
If you want to be on time;If you want to be on time everywhere, choose Moscow metro. Avoid timing of business rush aroundc9am and 6pm.New stations and lines have been built recently to allow even more quick transition through the capital.;5;April 22, 2019
Beautiful stations;I recommend to everyone to visit Moscow metro. They are so beautiful stations with marble and chandeliers, like palaces.;5;April 21, 2019
BEST WAY TO TRAVEL IN MOSCOW VERY FAST !!!;Moskovskiy Metropoliten is a Largest  Subway in Russia. A lot of stations and Lines. All Day  ticket  costs only 230 Roubles  ( around  3,00 EURO )  and could be a right  solution if You are travelling in Moscow and do not want to loose Your time. Everything is well organized. Easy Access to all Historical Places.;4;April 20, 2019
Architectural Marvel;Very Clean, no graffiti, like walking the halls of a museum. Muscovites take pride in their city. Best to visit with a guide as it is quite confusing to navigate on your own.;5;April 20, 2019
You cannot miss a visit to the metro stations when in Moscow;Amazing experience. Some stations are just stunning, especially the ones from the brown line. A day ticket can be bought and it can be used on busses and trams too.;5;April 19, 2019
Best subway ever!;We rode to and visited 4 subway stations while on our Tauck tour.  Each station is different with its own theme.  The ride down the longest escalator in the world was quite a treat. We couldn't see the top or the bottom for quite a while!  The stations are immaculately clean, as are the trains.  Everything seemed very efficient.  The subway in Moscow is famous so it is worth  look.;5;April 18, 2019
Stunning;What a gorgeous metro station, very light and airy and picturesque. Moscow Metro Tour is definitely worth taking.;5;April 14, 2019
So nice, so different;We took a guide to show us downtown Moscow. She also showed us the best metro stations. It is amazing and I would recommend it to all to spent a few hours there.;4;April 13, 2019
Everyday best transport;Fast and safe transport in Moscow. Very easy to find the map and facilities are useful. Recommended way to use.;5;April 13, 2019
Moscow Metro is the ever moving history;Since 1935, when the first line of the Moscow underground was opened, every year new stations and lines were opened (even at the war time 1941-1945), reflecting current trends in architecture, engineering and culture. Last year (2018) 18 new stations were created! It is important to visit the Metro at Sunday, or early in the morning, or late in the evening to have the chance to see it in peace.;5;April 13, 2019
Moscow underground;Moscow underground is the one of beautiful all over the world, thank to Stalin's time. Of course, the best time to visit is the early morning at weekend.;5;April 13, 2019
Stunning;Very artistic and truly a historical experience! This metro system is amazing. A cheap and easy way to travel.The Moscow Metro, a state-owned enterprise, is 381 km (237 mi) long and consists of twelve lines and 223 stations.;5;April 12, 2019
Beautiful!;My favourite metro station out of all the ones I saw! Truly is a palace for the people. A must see on your trip!;5;April 10, 2019
Great way to spend some free time.;My daughter and I opted to just hop on trains and start visiting stations. What an incredible day we had!  We had fun trying to decide which station had the best ... paintings/mosaics/chandeliers/etc.   We didn’t want to do a tour so that we could linger or move on at our own pace. And we were able to map out a few of our favorite shopping spots to hit along the way.   To buy tickets for the metro, you can use cash or credit card and the machines offer English as a language option. The app that we used and loved was Yandex.Metro their app not only has station maps and route suggestions, but you can also see where station exits are on the street and running times for each station.;5;April 8, 2019
Fabulous - courtesy of Stalin!;Many of the Underground stations have a level of decor and presentation that you would never expect to see in a station underground.  Again take a guide with you to capture the real stories behind each of the stations - some of which have had prior pictures of Stalin removed or camouflaged as he went out of favour - makes for fascinating listening and does not detract from the amazing works that were done to these stations.;5;April 4, 2019
Stunning;The underground is an example to us of how to encourage commuters to use the Metropolitan.  Each station has its own unique historical display and it is all done in splendour.;5;April 4, 2019
Stunning!;We spent nearly half a day just catching the metro between various stations. The highlight were the stations that are on the inner circle line, which is 1 of the original and oldest lines in Moscow. The design and architecture between the stations were all different. No matter how busy and crowded they were, you could always find a brief time in between trains arriving/departing to get some great photos. Make sure you find the spot in each station where there is a photo of a camera on the floor - this marks the spot where 1 of the best views in the station can be found.;5;April 2, 2019
Favorite shooting spot;It is one of many Moscow metro’s spectacular stations, but this one is probably the most photogenic. And not too many people, which makes it so appealing for photographers;5;April 1, 2019
Well maintained and efficient metro;Was thrilled to see the metro. Very artistic. Would recommend the metro tour as well. Amazing Interiors. The metro is very effective as well.;5;March 31, 2019
Take the metro tour;Take the tour, by yourself or with a guide. We did both, and definitely recommend it. What beauty underground, get a day card and hop on to trains. Checkout the metro stations!!!;5;March 31, 2019
Moscow Metro;Moscow metro is the best metro in world. Amazingly connected and lively in nature. Very beautiful stations.;5;March 30, 2019
A must see;A journey on the Metro system in the city is a must for all visitors. Each station is decorated with a different theme. These decorations could grace museums they are so elaborate. Built to raise the spirits of locals I am sure they still achieve this result for travelers from all over the globe.;5;March 30, 2019
easy to navigate;By far the biggest surprise in Russia.  There's a great deal of artwork to enjoy throughout. (Lots of art deco.)  The trains were easy to use, even if you don't speak/understand Russian.;5;March 25, 2019
metro stations galore;I have a goal of seeing all the metro stations. There are over 240 of them, it will take a while. The system is incredible, it is both efficient and cheap.;5;March 25, 2019
One of the best tours I did in my life;I highly recommend to visit Metro stations in Moscow with a guide. You will surprised with unique architecture which is survived from the soviet timings. Taking a guide will allow you to understand all stories behind it and enjoy it more. Keep this tour in your tour list while you are in Msocow.;5;March 21, 2019
Wow!;It was interesting to see the amazing architecture of the different stations. Stepping off one station to enter into another "time" station. Very cool!;4;March 20, 2019
Most comfortable and beautiful underground rapid system in the world;There are lot arcitectural metro stations. Most of them are in the downtown (center of the city). The recommended time of visiting is Sunday's morning. Not crowded and you would be enjoyed with it.;5;March 20, 2019
If I lived in Moscow, I wouldn't bother buying a car;Moscow metro system is perfect! Very reliable and well organised (trains come every two minutes), not to mention that many stations are just beautiful to look at.;5;March 19, 2019
Architecture at its best;Don't miss the metro stations! dont miss the metro all together. Not every station is as beautiful as expected but don't miss the important ones. Use a free walking tour if you can!;4;March 19, 2019
Moscow Metro;Moscow metro is a beautiful place! Most of the central stations are like a museum - you can spot mosaics, sculptures, stained-glass windows and other kinds of art there. Besides it's very fast, safe and comfortable.;5;March 19, 2019
Easy to get around and amazing history;The metro system is amazing, trains every 3 mins at least. Easy to buy a ticket. About $1 per journey or get a day pass. Machines have English option. The most elaborate stations built in 30 40 and 50s with stunning architecture and design. Much better way of travelling than taxi.;5;March 16, 2019
Transportation system and history; all wrapped in one!;This metro system is amazing. But even more amazing is the history attached to each of the stations. The symbols of the Russian history as well as the richness that it portraits. It’s overwhelming the amount of people constantly in and out of the trains and the stairs full of people up and down. Definitely a tourist attraction in its own right!  If you have the opportunity to visit and experience it, by all means do it.;5;March 15, 2019
Beautiful, clean and deep underground;First ride on this metro was to the Semi Final World Cup match,  Very easy to find your way around..  extremely clean, well signed and so very beautiful.  Took another ride to get off at different stops just to see the art.  ALL stops were squeeky clean.;5;March 13, 2019
Take the Moscow metro;when you visit Moscow, you MUST use public transportation and specifically the metro! it's truly a historical experience, its an underground museum. Experience the power and art of the Soviet ear. you can easily navigate your way around the metro, also you can download the Moscow metro app.;5;March 10, 2019
the most beautiful metro in the world;Moscow underground, or "metro", is by far the most beautiful underground in the world. the downtown stations are decorated as palace ballrooms, with fascinating chandeliers and scaffoldings. My favorite stations are Novoslobodskaya, Arbatskaya, Mayakovskaya.;5;March 10, 2019
Just do it;Take the whole day! Ride the rails and see the "workers's Paradise" subways! Do a little research ahead, to pick your favorite stops or get to other places you's like to visit, I went to the Arbat.;5;March 7, 2019
Cheapest and easiest way to get from one place to another in Moscow;The best way to travel around Moscow is by the metro as of the very cheap ticket rates and the convenience. During the rush hours the city becomes a mess and also i got to know even the locals park their cars from the nearest metro station to travel to the city without any hassle.;5;March 6, 2019
Moscow weekend;The metro system in Moscow was a godsend - however note that lines that use the same station actually have a different name and the walk between these can long. The metro itself is very old but saying that it was the most reliable I have been on with no waiting times for trains. Finally please, if you find it difficult to do yourself, take one of the guided tours - many of the metro stations are beautiful works of art and tell a story of the Russian hiatory.;5;March 5, 2019
Amazing stations;Using the metro in Moscow is very straight forward all single journey tickets are one price no matter the distance. Although you should expect some long walks when switching from one line to another. Also there are often steps to be navigated;4;March 4, 2019
Blast from the past;First off, it is one of the most efficient train station I've ever seen. It also amazes me that after so many years, it is so well maintained. The tickets are not expensive costing less than a dollar to any station. The fact that it doubles as a nuclear bunker for the masses is also amazing. The artwork and architecture is the highlight. Literally transporting you into the past;5;March 3, 2019
Best way to get around;Cheap and easy way to travel. Regular trains - every 2-3 mins. Oh, and the stunning unique design of each metro station.;5;March 2, 2019
AMAZING ARCHITECTURE BUT BEWARE PICKPOCKETS;The stations are incredibly elegant and put other cities' underground networks to shame. It looks like no expense was spared in their building. Our guide warned us that pickpocketing is prolific and tourists are easy targets so be careful.;5;March 1, 2019
The best station MRT ( Metro ) in the world;I think station MRT in russia ( Metro ) the best station in the world... so beautyfull, building, ornament2 so i love it... you must try MRT ( Metro ) if you go to moscow !;5;February 27, 2019
The most beautiful metro station in the world!;Cheap to use, very frequent trains, stations were wrote in both English and Russian on trains. The stations are tourist attractions themselves and worth a visit just to see them!;5;February 27, 2019
Love it;There are very beautiful art work at each stations. Train service also seemed to be ok. I have never seen such art work at metro stations. Fully enjoyed the stay. Theme of art work is different at different stations;5;February 27, 2019
Brilliant and cheap;Very cheap to get around, and very easy to navigate. Runs very frequently and in to the early hours. I bought a 3 day pass, and used it plenty. Be aware there can be lots of entrances and exits to each station so do your homework on which you need to use. Brilliant way to get around. Whilst I didn't see any of the spectacular stations, they are huge, so no getting squashed down there. There is security at every entrance, but it's quick and not invasive.;5;February 27, 2019
Busy, warm and a good way to get around;While it's way too crowded and warm during rush hour, the Moscow metro is still a good way to get around in Moscow. The system is easy to understand, there is a new train every other minute, it's cheap and many of the stations are beautiful. The last year or two they have upgraded the trains and the messages on the calling system are in both Russian and English.;4;February 26, 2019
A pice of art;If you are in Moscow you must visit as it is not just public transport but also a good lesson of art and history. It is very quick and cheap as well.;5;February 25, 2019
Unusual underground;Entrances more like going to  a museum, stations with amazing decor, mosaics, statues and stained glass! So clean and runs with such precision and order. Very easy to use and navigate around Moscow.;5;February 25, 2019
You've Gotta Do It, But Watch Your Things!;The Moscow Metro is a great way to get around the greater Moscow area - top flight!One qualifier.....not unlike other large-city metros, keep and eye or, better yet, a hand on your things, because people will occasionally try to "bump" into you to attempt to pickpocket you.  Not a big deal, really, as long as you're attentive, and we never felt as though we were in any physical danger at all.Check out the Moscow Metro!⚓;4;February 22, 2019
Most beautiful station;Is the most beautiful station and beautiful architecture and traveling is not as difficult as you think. You study a little Russian. Will be very impressive.;5;February 21, 2019
I’ve got a ticket to ride!;Just buy a day ticket and ride the Metro!Almost every station is decorative and worth getting off for a few minutes and soaking up. The trains are clean, spacious (I ride the Bakerloo line so almost anything is) and the stations are in the main large decorative underground halls. Seriously worth at least a half day, at least. Add to that it’s a very low cost and convenient way to get across Moscow. The traffic is horrendous!!!;5;February 21, 2019
Super!;The Moscow metro is two in one. This is not only a mode of transport, but also a Museum underground! The beautiful clean stations are decorated with marble paintings, and some of them with mosaic. This is also a very fast and regular transport!!!!;5;February 21, 2019
Awesome!;Form Soviet times I think Moscow Metro is the best attraction to visit and have a ride under Moscow. The architecture of the stations are just stunning and so different from each other.Besides it was very clean compared to many European Metros.Worth a visit 100%;5;February 20, 2019
Did several stops;Amazing value also amazing stations beautiful ceilings and sculptures, very efficient trains, escalators going down are steep,;5;February 17, 2019
A must see in Moscow;The Moscow metro is one of the most efficient and fast in the world. Note that nobody runs to catch a departing train. It is because the next one is coming in less than one minute. But the reason to visit the metro is to see the stations which are opulent underground palaces, some of them built with the marble taken from the walls of the demolished Christ the Savior Cathedral in 1931 ordered by Stalin. The marble benches from the church can be seen and used today on the Novokuznetskaya station.;5;February 16, 2019
Amazing architectural experience;So any stations, so many amazing buildings, do it yourself and wander about them, they are easy to navigate. There is so many to see, the6 are clean and safe.;5;February 16, 2019
Loved it;Great and easy to use to get around this fabulous city. Worth buying day passes as they are only a few quid so you don’t need to worry about tickets.;5;February 15, 2019
Good connections;Very fast are moving and too many stations is too mych people using it but need to avoid using it at 5 afternoon cause people finish from work and is very crowed in the way in is alway check from police on bags for any terrorist attcaks and that's very good and is cheap way to move only minus is that is little bit old the metros;4;February 14, 2019
Reliable, beautiful, clean, cheap ... extremely useful :);Due to reliability, speed and low price of Moscow metro, it is simply not important, where would you have accommodation, if it is at walking distance from the metro station. It takes less than 20 minutes to reach any point in the centre and waiting times are 1 to 2 minutes. Plus you can enjoy the decorations and architecture of several stations.;5;February 14, 2019
Elegant Russian style metro;The metro system is quite well developed and complicated than British underground. The circle line is the oldest metro in Moscow and the only line with massive decorations, some with 50’s communist style. It looks like an underground palace. Better plan to visit few stations and beware of pickpocket.;4;February 13, 2019
Statues!;Anyone visiting Moscow has to ride on the UndergroundNot only is it the cheapest way to get around but the stations are full of statues and Chandeliers.Trains are old but Clean and the service is goodyou can even walk from one station to another and after the World Cup was in Moscow last Summer there are many Signs in English to help non Russian Speakers;4;February 13, 2019
Travel off-hours and wonder!;One of the most efficient transit systems in the world and surely the most historical and decorative.  I was most recently in the system in 2019, but have traveled over the years alone and with friends. I would consider signing up for a tour because each station has a story and its own style, especially the older stations.  One of the best and cheapest ways to "see" Moscow and Soviet art and culture.;5;February 12, 2019
Amazing metro;Omg these stations are like museums! Each station is different and so clean you could eat off the floors. Definitely worth a visit!;5;February 12, 2019
worth visiting!;most of central and ring stations are real masterpieces: Revolution Square, Bierorusskaya, Mayakovskaya etc;5;February 12, 2019
Paris Metro, NY Subway...;...you ain't seen nothing yet. Not only is it a must for any Moscow traveller, but the Moscow Metro system in vital for getting to A-B. Take a moment to take it in. Don't worry about missing the metro on the station platform...another on will along in a minute. Signs are also in English too.;4;February 11, 2019
Must see for any foreign visitor;Metro was built at the same time as churches were destroyed across the country. So the metro was meant to be a temple, monument to "new order".;5;February 11, 2019
The most Gorgeous Metro on Earth;I visited Russia in June of 2012 and to this day my parents say it was the best holiday we ever went on. Moscow is a spectacular city and the Metro is quite possibly the Jewel in its crown. The Interiors are the finest in the world and have quite a colourful history... The Bolsheviks seized the Winter Palace in 1917 in addition to all of the Tsar's property throughout the Empire. The Interiors of the palaces were all re-purposed to meet "proletariat needs" chief among them was the need for a centralised transport Infrastructure in the recently re-instated capital. And so now over 8 decades after the metro first opened you can see the spectacular masonry and artworks that formerly adorned the Romanov estates Ironically combined with high concept Socialist Realist art to create what could possibly be the most aesthetically exquisite metro on earth. The thing I love about it most is that it is all uniquely Russian, and it encapsulates a nations' traumatic and glorious recent history for all the world to behold.;5;February 9, 2019
Unique subway system;To me, the Moscow metro serves as a symbol of Soviet Union's extremes: richly decorated interiors built at the time when ordinary Russians were deprived of many comforts in their lives. Overt opulence was more important than people, apparently. That aside, the metro's scale is astonishing, as it connects a huge territory of Moscow and some of its suburbs. You will need to budget at least a couple of hours to do it justice, and to ride most of its famous stations.;5;February 8, 2019
Russian underground station;Metro stations are amazing.Beautiful architecture, marble decor & chandeliers & so clean.Make sure you know which stop to get off at A’s all stations are written in Russian.;5;February 8, 2019
You must see;You must see the internal of this metro!! It is something different and really attract your attentionRecommend visit;4;February 7, 2019
Seriously everyone knows the Moscow metro stations are amazing;Honestly you could just spend a day wandering the halls and be astonished by the architecture. It is unlike any other metro in the world.;5;February 7, 2019
Moscow metro;For use like public transport very busy and not so convenient Very big area covered at city it’s good but sometimes very difficult understanding how change lines In rushing time absolutely crazy;3;February 6, 2019
Moscow metro;Anyone who goes to Moscow must take a Metro ride.  It is convenient and absolutely beautiful especially stations within a ring.;5;February 5, 2019
awesome experience;it was the awesome experience travelling by MOSCOW mentro, you will simply to travel by moscow metro if you are travelling to mocow for the first time then must travel by this metro;5;February 5, 2019
Confusing;It's nice that Moscow has such an extensive subway service. But their maps are quite confusing to say the least. I've been in many subways all over the world. This subway is most defintely the most difficult to understand.;3;February 5, 2019
efficient and beautiful;A very efficient metro system and some of the stations are extremely beautiful. Negative is that one often has to climb stairs and there are no elevators for wheelchairs in most places;5;February 5, 2019
Great experience , worth seeing;we travelled with a guide which made it easy to go to the appropriate station. If you do it yourself you will need to research where to go.  It's true that the art was propaganda but I think it's still worth seeing as many of them really believed it. I also think the soviets do war memorials in an impressive and moving way. I say this as a 100% capitalist by the way;4;February 4, 2019
Majestic Train stations;Designed in white marble, sculptures of eagles and other symbolic motifs, makes you feel like you have entered a church not a train station, so much pride in their public transport!. The trains are vintage but seem to still work well, just get ready for a noisy experience. A little like travelling on the metro in Paris in an old carriage.;4;February 3, 2019
Use metro and NOT taxi in Moscow;The Metro in Moscow is very nice, beautiful and easy. However the taxi in Moscow is not really good to tourists, they all the time will ask for more money that is actually is. Happy holidays.;5;February 3, 2019
Worthless saying it is a Museum and the fastest way around Moscow!;Worthless saying it is a Museum and the fastest way around Moscow! Most of times when traffic jams the only way to move from places is the Metro. The Moscow Metro it is not only huge but beautiful in each stop. Looks like a movie set and everywhere you will enter or exit will be an experience and beauty for the eyes.;5;February 1, 2019
Works of art;The metro stations are amazing and you could just wander into them simply to enjoying the "art" of each one.As a subways system it is clean, efficient, inexpensive and very easy to use;5;January 31, 2019
BRILLIANT, GRANDIOSE, FAST, CHEAP, EASY!;Went there with a quick, inexpensive guided tour as I do not speak Russian and was a bit intimidated. Loved it so much that I stayed after the visit to explore on my own, and ended up using it every day ;-)1) Best means of transport as Moscow has huge traffic jams, holding up taxis. Very efficient and fast.2) Easy and cheap: just go to the cashier (KACCA), say hello (dobreedien), and buy a rechargeable Troika card (50ru=80cents for the card,that you can get back when you leave Moscow, or keep as a souvenir + 50ru or less per trip).Just say "Troika" and simply hold up the number of fingers for the number of "rides" you want, and put your money down. 3) Most station names are in cyrillic and English; in the trains, announcements are in Russian and often in English. If not, remember that a Male voice announcement means you are going Towards the center, a Female voice Towards the suburbs.Learn to read Cyrillic or get a subway map with both alphabets.4) Avoid rush hour for your first subway trip (best time is from 11am to 2pm, or after8pm. Or during weekends).5) The most beautiful stations are:Konsomolskaya Arbatskaya (line 4 Kiyevsskaya (line 4 Mayakovskaya (line 2Elektrozavodskaya (line 3 Slavianski boulvar (line 3Pobedy Park ( line 36) Read about this fascinating subway history beforehand or get an inexpensive guide:During WW2, it served as a shelter, with women and children sleeping in the subway cars. They even had a few shops and a library set up there during the worst bombing air raids. It is funny to realize that the portraits of the very man behind the creation of this gorgeous metro, the People's Palace as he used to call it, in contrast with the tsars' palaces, have all been removed ( yes, all portraits of infamous Staline have been erased, replaced sometimes by Lenine...again, it s funny to see a fresco of Russian soldiers listening, during WW2, to a speech by Lenine (who was long dead at that time...);5;January 30, 2019
The world's most beautiful subway;Many worthwhile stops on Moscow metro, as shown in pics. Art abounds here in public transit as nowhere else...sorry Paris, London, New York, and Tokyo!-Revolution metro station, Moscow, and its famous sculptures.-The Theater metro station, Moscow. Arches, vaulted platform walls, etc.-Lenin Library bus and metro stops;5;January 30, 2019
Like visiting a museum;The Metro is incredible. Clean and architecturally stunning. It is worth your time to hop on and hop off at many of the stations just to see the beauty.;5;January 30, 2019
Art underground;Take the metro to the many stations that are underground art galleries.  This is an exceptionally efficient service so you can check out quite a few stations.;5;January 28, 2019
a top attraction;If there were just the metro, the city of Moscow would still be a top destination, especially for its stations, great monuments to art and architecture, of which none are alike. Depending on one's aesthetical preferences each station might be looked upon differently. I especially like the Mayakovskaya station on the green line, which was opened in 1938. Long arcades on both sides of a wide open hall with mosaics in the vaults, depicting typical Soviet scenes, are the characteristics of this construction in Art Deco style. And all is covered in pink, white and grey marble. In its name it honours the futuristic poet Vladmir Mayakovsky, wo had committed suicide 8 years earlier.Other stations, which are considered among the most worthwhile to visit, are: Komsomolskaya on the oldest, the red line from 1935, then the Novoslobodskaya (1952) with its colourful stained glass panels, and the Taganskaya (1950) with its light blue and triangular majolica panels. Apart from the aesthetics the Moscow metro is also a very convenient and easy to handle way to travel around this big city. As elsewhere it is best to avoid rush hours.;5;January 26, 2019
Very impressive all round.;Very impressive all round. Stations are very attractive  - in some ways more like art galleries. Well worth seeking out some of the more interesting ones. Train service is very impressive. I don't think we ever had to wait more than a couple of minutes for a train anywhere.People we met were very polite, courteous and g=helpful to strangers struggling with the system. One gentleman went out of his way to accompany us to the correct platform and see we got on the right train. Very much appreciated.;5;January 25, 2019
Less than I expected;The Moscow Metro was on my bucket list mainly because of its beauty. You can google many images of the Moscow Metro stations and they all look amazing! Sadly those images do not tell you how crowded it can be. We travelled by subway in late afternoon by ourselves, and always felt zoo. Gorgeous stations for sure and too many into my pictures of the Metro. 4 stars as a result.;4;January 24, 2019
One word, "Stunning!";For about US 50 cents you can ride the entire Metro taking in each Museum like Station, each with its own theme, whether Bronze Statues, Stained Glass Panels, Mosaics on the Ceilings, on the Walls, large Cathedral Ceiling with Chandeliers, just have your camera ready.  You can ride the entire subway as a single journey, but with so many Stations it is best to research the ones of interest.  There are about 8 key ones to visit across several lines.  Should take about 1&1/2 to 2 hours for do your own private tour.;5;January 22, 2019
BEAUTIFUL AND EFFICIENT;With our guide we had the chance to visit several metro stations. All different and richly decorated, they are works of art from the old period and today for the last stations that have just opened. Many people but we can easily take the time to look and photograph. The Moscow metro system is very efficient, fast, clean and safe.;5;January 21, 2019
This was almost as good as going to a Museum!!!!;I was ever so impressed with the Metro, we went to multiple stations and each one was so very different, clean, orderly and on-time, not to be missed;5;January 20, 2019
An Underground Art Museum;The Moscow Subway is an underground art museum.The Moscow subway actually has chandeliers! Coming from New York City, it is other-worldly.Clean, safe and very affordable. An efficient and enjoyable way to get around.;5;January 20, 2019
Architecture wonder;Who would think subway stations can be so beautiful?  Unbelievable architecture craftsmanship and designs.   I wish modern day development will use the old artistic designs.   Train services are great as well. Definitely worth a trip through few stations to see the architecture.;5;January 19, 2019
Amazing Metro;I was on a solo friendly trip and our tour guide brought us to several metro stations. They were so unbelievably gorgeous- I was stunned. Such an amazing sight and pristine!;5;January 19, 2019
See a psychedelic movie with faimous metro on our youtube channel: Dan & Beka journey. ENJOY!;We visited the famous Moscow subways on a Sunday, when not crowded with people. For us it was a psychedelic experience. We've also made a movie for our youtube channel in timelapse mode, where we presenting the main metros, at 2 x speed, for as long as possible in a shorter time. Join our YouTube channel and see the psychedelic movie here: Dan & Beka journey. ENJOY!;5;January 19, 2019
Awesome mode of transportation;I love the Moscow Metro (subway) systems!  My favorite line was the one that went to the "Airmall" (Moscow City) station!  This line has modern trains that feature extensive sound deadening and an air ride suspension.  All of the trains get you close to where you need to be, for very little $.  It's no wonder that the majority of Moscow residents/visitors use this efficient mode of transportation.;5;January 19, 2019
Beautiful Metro Station;It's of the 4 floor down metro station . The difficulty is nobody speaks English and nothing has been written in English . You need to see travel guide metro translated in English and then refer to see where you want to go .;5;January 19, 2019
Amazing to see;Its amazing to think that the metro would get so many visitors....and yet it does.  To get a real idea of the metro take a train to a few stations then return to the one you started from.  Its not expensive but each one has something pretty amazing to see.  Try to avoid peak hour in the morning and late in the afternoon and beware of pickpockets.;4;January 19, 2019
Great transport but becareful;Everyone raves about the architecture in the metro but I thought it was nice but nothing outstanding.  The system itself is fantastic in moving massive numbers of people.  It is cheap to get around and easy to use.  However! please be very careful of pickpockets they are very clever at what they do. But don't let this stop you using their fantastic system.;4;January 19, 2019
Moscow subways are amazing;As an American traveling to Moscow for the first time I was especially impressed by the cleanliness of the city and the magnificence of the subway system. Take a tour of the subway stations and you will encounter the "Palaces for the People." Simply astounding architecturally and beauty.  We had a man on his way to work see us trying to puzzle out the map and he ended up riding with us to our stop and pointing us to our destination.  Very good experience in Moscow.;5;January 18, 2019
Most beautiful metro;Literally the Moscow metro is gorgeous. I would not miss out on riding the metro just to experience it. It’s also very clean and very efficient.;5;January 18, 2019
Used the subway (very easy to manoeuvre);This was a great way to spend a few hours seeing the magnificent subways... all are easy to find and really very pretty.  My favourite was the baroque style station and he station with the bronze...;4;January 17, 2019
Historical Subway;The Subways in Moscow are historical Relic and super interesting. There is lots of amazing Soviet art, some of it refurbished, and some in its original form. Really really cool for people who are into historical architecture and the like. Lots of cool sculpture. Also lots of cool architecture. I recommend checking it out if your tourist in Moscow.;5;January 16, 2019
The most unusual metro in the world;Stalin has explicitly ordered that the metro stations of Moscow look like "palaces" and so they do. It is not the most convenient metro in the world, but it is surely the grandest. Apart from the usual tourist route of the Ring line and central stations of the Green line, I would advise traveling the Red line from  Park Kultury to Sokolniki, the first route launched in 1935 with its constructivist modesty. The new stations of Line 10 are also very interesting, especially Sretenski Boulevard and Dostoyevskaya;5;January 16, 2019
A Must See tour in Moscow.;A must see tour when visiting Moscow, was a great tour and then we travelled around on the metro for our stay and all the stations were worth the visit.If you don't do a tour at least travel of the metro, and get off at different stations.At least the tour takes you to all the main stations and there are stories relating to each one.;5;January 15, 2019
One of it’s Kind;Legendary Moscow Metro is the life line of Muscovites. With more than 300 stations in Moscow is touches almost each and every corner of Moscow. Many stations on Brown line and some others are artistically done up with a particular theme. There are special  Metro tours also which are organised along with a guide. Must do in Moscow;5;January 15, 2019
One of the most beautiful subway I've ever seen;It is very convenient to explore Moscow by subway. I advise you to buy Troyka ticket(travel card where you put money and can use any public transport).;5;January 15, 2019
Stalin's art for the people;You could easily spend a whole day visiting the most noteworthy stations. There are many printed and online guides available and it is well worth planning your route carefully to avoid needless doubling back and to ensure you explore the full wealth of this subterranean treasure trove which is still being added to.;5;January 15, 2019
Amazing architecture;The underground metro was great.  Lots of mosaics and old Russia.  It’s like a city itself. The system is so much better than the roadways.;5;January 14, 2019
Amazing Metro - Runs often, and very artistic;Who would have thought that Moscow would have one of the most interesting metro system?  Have been to NY, Singapore, Hong Kong, Korea, Japan, Netherlands, Spain, France, UK, Estonia and other parts of the world, and of all places, Moscow had some of the most artistic and efficient (?) metro system.  First of all, the décor is quite impressive.  The ceiling, the side mount, even sculptures on the side.  And, many stations are very, very deep - the depth of which I have never seen - some probably as much as 4X deeper than ones in Singapore.Second of all, the trains run very frequently - maybe as often as 2 minutes, in many cases.And, all for quite reasonable price - had I known, I might have gotten the Aeroport Express from the airport for 650 rubles, which would have taken me to the city center, plus 5 days of unlimited metro.  As was, I purchased 20 rides for about 800 rubles - and ended up taking the card back as I forgot to return it.  (they pay back some rubles for returning the card)Still, it was an experience, and highly recommended to visit the metro stations just for its artwork, if nothing else.;5;January 13, 2019
Well worth getting a guided tour;The history and beauty of the Moscow Metro are well worth the time and money for a guided tour. We would have been lost without a guide as we do not speak or read Russian and all signage is in Russian.  An amazing metro historically architecturally and artistically.;5;January 13, 2019
Soviet Wealth at its prime;Built to cheer up the workers on their commute it certainly is worth  a visit. It is a great system, trains every few minutes. you pay to enter the subway and that is the charge, one station or 10 stations.Its hard to walk and look up at the art, but its fantastic stuff, they  were great artists that is for sur;5;January 13, 2019
Spare the time, the stations are totally worth a visit;I was n`t sure what the big deal was until I got there. The metro is a way of getting from A to B - right? Yes, but...apart from being clean, warm, well lit and safe at all times, some of these stations look more like ceremonial halls or art galleries. Columns and walls are faced with marble and decorated with frescoes, mosaics, sculptures... Some of my favorite stations are  Taganskaya, Mayakovskaya, Kievskaya, Komsomolskaya, Arbatskaya, Ploshchad Revolutsiyi... There`s free wifi, too. As a means of transport, the metro is efficient, easy to navigate and cheap. Moscow is huge and you are bound to need some sort of transport. I found the 3 days unlimited pass great value for 400rub.;5;January 12, 2019
Breathtaking outstamding;Great place in capital of russia , west of the country Services not as same as USSR time or like other cities of Russia!Price is not so bad Worth to try /////;4;January 12, 2019
easy to get around in Moscow;don't be afraid to use the Moscow metro, it is really designed well and although it is crowded in peak hours, it is efficient. Some of the stations are also quite beautifully designed.;5;January 11, 2019
A must see;Head to the prettiest metro stops in Moscow for a delightful tour of what an underground could look like! Very historical and very pretty. Add it to your list.;5;January 10, 2019
a must see;great metro station at least visit 8 or 9 on your own,buy a ticket of one day and go around the more important one;5;January 10, 2019
Amazing;Moscow Metro system is amazing, the city is perfectly conected, the trains are very friquent (every 2 mins), and the stations are beautiful, like art galeries.;5;January 9, 2019
Amazing part of the culture of Moscow;Definitely have to be visited. Even if you don't plan your journeys using the metro, go and see it. Top 3;5;January 8, 2019
overall not bad , but the MCC is perfect;It depends on the metro station and the line you choose , for example the MOSCOW CENTRAL CIRCLE is one of the greatest trains I ever entered , it has a lot of seats ,it has resting rooms (WC) , also it’s route is on the ground , central stations are also new trains with good services such as charging phones , and lesser noise , but the stations which are outside of city center are usually old trains with noise.Pros : 1-fast transport and it almost transports everywhere.2-good WiFi.3-usually opens at 5:30am and closes at 1:00am.4-cheap transports.5-many stations have awesome designs and arts on the walls, you’ll definitely like it.Cons:1-not convenient if you have heavy things to carry , because during line changing you will get exhausted , especially if you are going to airport is better to not use metro if you have a lot of bags with you.2-sometimes it’s so crowded. WARNING: when the doors open try to go inside as soon as possible because the doors will be closed in 20seconds , also don’t forget This rule first people exit then you enter and don’t stand in front of the door because you might be pushed away by the passenger who exit Enjoy your trip:);3;January 8, 2019
Beautiful. Work of Art. Must do thing!;Must do thing in Moscow even if you travel around by taxis all the time, just for the experience. Don’t miss it! We tried around six or seven stations from Red square to few other places and every statin was a work of art. Simply beautiful!;5;January 8, 2019
BIG AND MAKES GETTING AROUND EASY!!!;An absolutely must to hellp you get around Moscow. In the beginning it might be a little challenging but most places are written in English as well.;5;January 7, 2019
Must see;If you have been on any other underground/subway you will be astounded at how boring they were when compared to the metro. The stations are beautiful and the train service is beyond any other. I have been on the Paris, London and Los Angeles undergrounds and they are nothing compared to this. We missed a train by a few seconds and had wait 2 min. for the next one. Can you imagine a train coming that quickly in London! Sometimes you have to wait for 10 to 15 min for the next one, assuming you can even get on it.;5;January 6, 2019
Must see;The metro is very cheap less than an a euro per trip. Half a euro if you buy the troika card and it's also a museum. I found several of the stations not on the list of those recommended better, but I guess this is personal preference.;4;January 6, 2019
If you do nothing else you have to visit the metro!!;Some of the stations are museums unto themselves, absolutely amazing! Stunning artwork in many different mediums and the trains are always on time;1;January 6, 2019
Better than a Saudi Arabian Prince's Palace;The Moscow Metro can only be compared to a Saudi Arabian Prince's palace; with the exception, the Moscow Metro is much better. It's an amazing sight, a jaw dropping experience. The trains are safe and of course, extremely crowded during rush hour. The Moscow Metro is better than any other metro I've been on. I lived in Moscow, so this was my main mode of transportation.;5;January 5, 2019
Few days around the city;The metro is easy to use & tokens are easy to buy at 45 R for one journey. The map is straightforward, the escalators are steep, and some stations are beautiful.;5;January 5, 2019
Looks like a museum;I was so surpriced too see the state of the art metro, you can feel the history here and admire the power of Russia. Its so beautifull and clean ,its amazing;5;January 4, 2019
Comfy but not too safe;The network is quite developed, but, when crowded, you may happen to be harassed by some aggressive passengers demanding more space.;4;January 3, 2019
History ... History ...;Metro stations are one of the most important attractions at Moscow , every one is a different story . If you didn’t visit you didn’t visit Moscow;5;January 3, 2019
Museums under the Moscow ground, do not miss;Moscow metro is efficient, reliable, cheap & work of art & architectural & engineering master piece. You get trains practically every minute....can reach any nook & corner of the city....beating the infamous Moscow traffic.I visited during the FIFA WC, it was crowded but loved every moment of it. For tourists like us, by a ticket of RUB 50 & you can hop-in-hop-off any number of stations, of any of the 12 lines available, with only one rider, not exiting any of the platform in between.Personally, I firmly believe, that Moscow Metro is as important a tourist attraction as the other Palaces & Cathedrals.....this is an engineering brilliance & the stations are archietectural wonders from the Soviet era. Some of the stations are really deep under the ground & can even take escalator rides ranging from 120-180 seconds to reach the platform levels. Park Povedy station is the deepest.For tourists, I suggest to at least consider the ride to Brown line, actually this is Moscow Inner Circle line, a circular line, you can come back to the same station where you commeced the journey, ho-on-hop-off all the beautiful platforms, take enough pics & come back. Spend at least 2-2.5 hrs for a trip to Moscow metro.;5;January 3, 2019
Functional Museum;Cheap, fast, efficient and beautiful. Most of the beautiful stations are on the inner circle line (5). Get on and ride and then get off at each station for a few minutes. The trains are unbelievably reliable and we never waited more than 2 minutes for any train.;5;January 1, 2019
Quick and efficient;Easy to use after the first time. Also the ticket machines are easy, you might want to consider buying the one- or multiday ticket, as it is really cheap!;5;January 1, 2019
A must to see;I love Metro 's architecture in Moscow.  Try KOL'TSEVAYA LINE (brown circle inner city line) by hopping on /off each station.  I love it.;5;December 30, 2018
During visit to Moscow;We visited Metro as part of our visit for Christmas and New Eve.I was thrilled that each station is dedicated to a specific country showing illustrated pictures of the history of each place.Great idea to promote.This must be one of the best if not the best Metro I ever visited in the world.;5;December 30, 2018
Easy;i went to the world cup to see Iceland play and the metro was easy and quick. I will love to explore this city more;4;December 30, 2018
Beat the traffic;Perfect way to get around. Beat the horrible Moscow traffic. Probably the fastest way to get anywhere, easy to understand. Is very busy all the time. Beautiful lighting and works if arts can be found. Even though ehailing is quick, easy and relatively cheap, it’s probably quickest to a metro because traffic is horrible. Runs from early until after midnight;5;December 30, 2018
Unforgettable Experience in Moscow;Yes I know Red Square and St. Basil's Cathedral are the must-see attractions in Moscow but I have to say, the metro is most impressed experience when I was there - I really really enjoyed my time exploring the underground world of the city and the art. It's fast and every stop is so AMAZING & INCREDIBLE !!!;5;December 30, 2018
An Underground Work of Art;There’s no other underground system that can compare to what the Russians have created here.It’s functional, clean, safe - so it does its job perfectly, but the architecture & artwork at some of the stations is just stunning. Whether it’s the mosaic pictures or the fine stone works you find yourself questioning as to why so many fine works were created in these underground stations.Oh, trains are efficient & plentiful and of course graffiti free;5;December 29, 2018
A must see;Full of art and amazing columns etc.  Really loved looking down there and the stops have different themes.  A bit different from the ones in St Petersburg;5;December 29, 2018
Metro amazing;The metro is easy to follow. We purchased a 20 ride ticket from the English speaking counter. Unbelievably a train comes every minute!Lovely stations. Spotlessly clean. Sometimes buskers play. The easiest way to get around whether you are just a day tourist or going to the ballet or opera;5;December 28, 2018
The best;Moscow subway is the best in the world. It is fast, beautiful, always on time, cheap and has a good coverage. Trains arrive every 2 min;5;December 28, 2018
Amazing;The Moscow metro is something else! It’s more architecture than trains. The stations are incredible. Just do a few stops. It’s an adventure! But worth it.;4;December 25, 2018
A must;As a railways manager, I can tell this is a must, for everybody. Stunning beauty and now easier for tourists.;5;December 24, 2018
What a pleasure;Incomparable with any other metro system. Enjoyed every ride. Felt very safe. A nice way to meet the people of Moscow.;5;December 22, 2018
Good transport;The metro transport is developed and you can easily reach every point of the city. The stops are beautiful, on top places. We are using it every day. You can buy card with 20 entrances.;5;December 22, 2018
Puts every other metro to shame!;Marble as far as the eyes can see. Very grand and ostentatious stations, tunnels and escalators. Not seen anything like it anywhere in the world!;5;December 20, 2018
Dream come true.;This one has been on my bucket list forever. We went on the tour which included 10 different stations. All different in their beauty and construction. The stories that are told thru the art and tapestries, statues and monuments. Dont miss this if you are in Moscow;5;December 20, 2018
Fabulous get a guided tour;Wow We booked a 90 minute tour with Viator & got a wonderful, knowledgeable guide Nikita . Very reasonable at £26 each including our metro fares. We visited 9 or 10 of the “ best” stations with him & learned a huge amount of amazing info that we simply would never have found out doing it without a guide. We then went & visited a few more on our own as navigating your way around is very easy. Def recommend this;5;December 18, 2018
Unusual visit but great tour to admire Soviet era Art;Paid 55 doubles per son to see various stops to admire the interiors of the metro . Took line 3 to see 4 great metro stations- ploshchad revolution for the bronze statues and the cute dogs , arbat station for the soviet era designs, kiev station for Ukraine murals and Peabody station for Russian victories over her enemies . You just need to get off at selected stations and admire their work of art and culture . Another advantage of taking the metro is that you will arrive at your destination a lot faster than taxi or Uber . Took me 50 minutes to reach a particular destination on line 3. If I took the metro, I would have reached it in 12 minutes . Great people mover and for propaganda’s purposes .;5;December 17, 2018
like a five star hotel;like a five star hotel ambience the royal look and construction of metro which make pride the Russian architect;5;December 16, 2018
Daytrip;Cheap and easy to navigate IF you have a map with all lines ( there are plenty on the internet ). We paid 218 roebel for a daycard ( around 3 euro );5;December 15, 2018
Amazing;We have never seen anything in a metro station before, you just have to get off the train wait to the people have moved out of the way and just stare at the walls , just a amazing.Don't bother going upstairs nothing to look at thought outside would be nice it is not Use a one day travel card it is worth it;5;December 15, 2018
Astonishing;Astonished by the stories and history behind the oldest metro. The depth of some stations was wonderful.;5;December 14, 2018
Impressive Moscow Metro stations;On our last day in Moscow, our guide took us to visit the metro stations. We took one of the trains and got out at the famous Komsomolskaya Station. We were surprised when we step foot in the station. We did not expect the station to be so elaborately decorated and beautiful. Amazing work of art in itself.The ceiling was in Baroque-style together with its chandeliers. Walls were painted yellow with beautiful decorative floral moldings.We also visited Novoslobodskaya and Elektrozavodskaya stations. Both the stations have also unique designs and artwork. It's a lovely and intriguing experience. Like visiting an underground art gallery!;4;December 13, 2018
Like visiting a fine arts museum;The Moscow Metro (subway) is unlike any I’ve ever been in in my travels throughout the world. The subway trains themselves are typical as far as comfort and interiors. They can also be a little crowded at times, just like anywhere. It’s the stations themselves that are unique. Fine art in the form of murials cover the ceilings and walls. Sculpture is located through the system. Much glorifies the period of the Soviet Union, but it is truly a unique experience to travel throughout the system. It is also the cleanest subway I’ve traveled.;5;December 12, 2018
Exit # is important;Perfect transit network. Make sure you know which exit to take. Weekly pass (750 rub or so) was way useful than the single ride passes I used to buy for 80 rubles each. You can't get lost if you follow the routes exactly as google map is telling you. During 8am-9am, it is jam packed. I couldn't even reach my pocket being squeezed and flowing down stream in human river. Make sure you're on the correct color line. Moskviches don't normally know the line by the number. They use the color instead (green, brown etc.). Otherwise, it's gonna be nearly impossible to get out of the flow to change direction. But, it was a real fun experience. Ever been in Tokyo metro rush hour? Now, multiply that with 1.5, you get the idea.;5;December 12, 2018
Very efficient;Efficient service with multiple lines. Very impressive frequency. A bit dated carts but not overly crowded;4;December 12, 2018
One of the best things in Moscow;The Moscow Metro is a marvel and a must see. Efficient, historical and stunning. Most of the impressive stations are on the circle/brown line but make sure you also go to Komsomolskaya and Ploshad Revolutsia.;5;December 12, 2018
The fast way;Most of the Metro Stations are beautiful. It is the absolut fastest and cheapest way to get around Moscow. Easy to understand the Lines. Clean and everywhere Security.;5;December 11, 2018
Great;Many Metro stations in Moscow Center are decorated like museum or art galleries. You can spend a full day excursions through the metro stations.;5;December 11, 2018
Best Way To Get Around In Moscow;What a great subway system. Awesome architecture! Fast, efficient, clean and really economical! Get on a train, any train, and the recorded voice instructions given in Russian (and English for those who need it) are so simple to follow. Could not believe how fast and easy it was to move around the city. Easy connections to Aeroexpress trains and train stations such as Paveletskaya Train Station.;5;December 11, 2018
Easy to use;It is well known that the metro is almost like an art gallery. But it is also an easy to use and fast method of transport around the city. Station names are in English and on-board announcements also have a translation as well now. So I suggest getting a tour guide of the best stations to view and spend some time looking. There is one fixed price for trips and you only have to pay on entering the station so you can spend a whole day on the metro for virtually free.;5;December 11, 2018
An attraction in itself;Moscow metro is very interesting. A lot has been said about it, bit what most called my attentio were how deep into the Earth it is and how frequent the trains pass. The escalators were huge. I never saw anything like that. And, I took the subway several times and several lines and connection. Never the train took more than one and a half minute to arrive. Besides that, I agree with what others say about the luxury, but not that much.;4;December 10, 2018
May 2017 not 18;When you go to moscow, a metro tour is a must. Its amazing to see first hand the way they have there metro system set up;5;December 7, 2018
More than just a means of transportation;It was one of the biggest & densest metro lines in the world with original 13 stations connected the city center with industrial, residential areas and allows visitor to travel quickly and easily. Built in the functional works of art & colorful architecture, intended of 'socialist paradise' to people in the city.The reflective marble walls,the bright colors, sculpture, the high ceilings, the amazing chandeliers, (at many stops) were the reflection of the architectural legacy that Stalin left to Russian culture.;4;December 5, 2018
A Magnificent Maze;In my 10 days stay in Moscow i used several time the metro.It is the maintransport system of the city which connect almost all the areas.Is a real gem of architecture very well organised , efficient and practical.It has 14 lines and more than 17.000 km of lines and at the beginning it looks different and scary. But day by day you are getting used to it.Some station are real reasures remained the same from the old era and some others are very modernised.It is cheap and offers also free wifi inside.Avoid the early morning and evening hours on working days as it is very busy and crowded.The only negative are the exit and entrance doors which are strange system and dangerous.;5;December 4, 2018
Chaotic Necessity;The whole Underground is chaotic and full of people running and bumping into each other.It has a couple of nicely decorated stations which are worthy of photographs but the rest look terrible.Nevertheless if you want to escape Moscow Traffic at Peak Hours you are obliged to take it.;3;November 30, 2018
Amazing operation;Moscow metro is amazing.  We didn’t have to wait more than a minute for a train.  Some if the stations have statues, carvings, etc.  the escalators are so long and high you can barely see the other end.  Fares are cheap, trains are clean and safe.  The only problem is the language —- nothing is in English.  Plan on spending a few minutes figuring out where to go, etc.  The subway in NY is nothing compared to this.;5;November 29, 2018
Worth making your own tour;I went to Moscow as part of a tour. One day, we checked out two stations but, after hearing so much about the Moscow metro, I knew I needed to see more. I searched online for a guide to the various important stations, rounded up if you friends, and set off after dark on a loop around the city. The system and its grand architecture does not disappoint. All in all, we spent about two hours underground and each paid for only entry to the system.;5;November 29, 2018
Amazing Metro stations!;All the stations are different and beautiful decorated. It's very easy to hop on and off the metro to visit some of them.;4;November 28, 2018
Well worth a visit;I had hired a guide Anastasia through the InterCon where I was staying and as part of the tour she insisted I see a couple of Metro stations. Firstly they are deep underground and coupled as bomb shelters in case of conflict. They are beautifully decorated unlike similar Metro stations in the west. This includes bronze statues of Russian life - make sure you rub the dog and the hen for good luck. Altogether an interesting hour;5;November 27, 2018
Clean and very safe;Been using the metro for many years but did not return to Moscow for the past 10 years. Quality has ugely improved, metro is very safe (lots of police around) , extremely clean (not a single paper on the floor), cheap and never had a problem here. Stations are just masterpieces....you can go any station around the Кольцевая (inner circle) line and you find stations that are a masterpiece. Overall the best metro I have ever visited, the most complete and easy running. Do not use taxis when in Moscow;5;November 26, 2018
Beautiful metro stations  and efficient network;Visited a number of stations as part of a wider tour. Great history for each station and their design. Trains are really really cheap to use once you buy an oyster style card which you can then top up at machines. Post World Cup all station announcements are also in English and lots of English speaking  ticket offices and helpPoints st the central stations. See the amazing old photos of the metro in full rush hour..seriously crowded!. Definitely make the metro part of any city tour and a great network to use to get around between sights.;5;November 25, 2018
A hidden gem.;Go for the ride to wherever  you want to go in Moscow; stop and look at the art at every station. A Moscow adventure!;5;November 25, 2018
Excellent way discover Moscow;Huge metro network allowing people achieve most of the places in Moscow in easy and cheapest way. Old stations are a place of Soviet art. Old stations do not have access for disables ( new only).;5;November 24, 2018
Historic stations;In every train station there’s a different design of mosaic and chandeliers and statues. It’s good that they are able to preserve it.;4;November 24, 2018
Amazing Metro;A must see and travel experience when visiting MoscowYou be amazed at the stations, trains and decor of this underground marvel.Cheap as chips as well;5;November 23, 2018
Best way to get around Moscow;We used the metro a lot in our 5 days in Moscow, the network covers a huge area and is really easy to use. We got an (unlimited use)universal travel card for 5 days for about 800rubles. The metro is amazing with every station different to the next but the convenience of the stations to major and not so major attractions across the city was the best part. Trains vary from newer to older versions but all were pretty good overall.  Little bit crowded at peak times but mostly not too bad, trains arrive at least every couple of minutes at major stations.;5;November 23, 2018
Could spend all day exploring. Try to avoid rush hour;So looking on line - it was recommended to try to avoid rush hour and I would agree. We tried to explore between 11-2pm and we could tell a difference as it got closer to when people might start leaving work.  I looked on line and just found what stations some recommended - the highlights were revolution square, teatralnaya, elektrozavodskaya but ESPECIALLY komsomolskaya and novoslobodskaya. It’s a cheap, warm way to explore the beauty and history of Moscow. Find a website that gives explanations of the stations (easily google-able) for a self guided tour.;5;November 22, 2018
stunning architecture;well worth visiting a selection of stations, amazing. One of the ticket office assistants geve us advise on the best stations;5;November 21, 2018
Nice;They have very nice metros. At one of the metro stations is at this moment exhibiton of pictures of Slovenia (my homeland). Back to the point - different stations, paintings, sculpures.. and very cheap. If you buy TROJKA card, one ride costs 36 rubels.;5;November 20, 2018
fantastic  (wow);Moscow  metro one of the  best metros in the  world. metro ticket rates are very cheap.more convenient   more economyperfect timing of the trains.English  announcement is the   unique selling point of  Moscow  metro.one has to enjoy  by travelling.;5;November 19, 2018
Put this pin your bucket list;Moscow is a fantastic place to visit, and the subway is a national treasure.  Each stop on the line is decorated differently.;5;November 18, 2018
Sites worth seeing;Everyone who has been said it is a must and it certainly was. We were lucky enough to be taken by a guide to navigate all and explore the stations. You could do this yourself and felt very safe .;5;November 17, 2018
you have to see it;Moscow is my home town and I might be missing it too much, so its not 100% objective. But I took NYC subway and Paris subway and Prague ...nothing better then Moscow Metro;5;November 17, 2018
An awesome surprise in Moscow;We took a ride around The subway ring and visited about 5 to 6 portions OF The Metro. According to our guide, each station have different design, theme and chandeliers. There was a station full OF mosaic wall art and stain glass. There was also a station full OF bronze statues lining The station. Also The place is very clean inspite OF The crowd passing thru Daily. A busy Metro with art and culture displayed ON The walls. A must place to see in The City.;4;November 16, 2018
Jaw dropping stations;I spend two hours one evening travelling from one station to the next, all for the cost of one journey, so see the amazing Soviet-inspired station architecture. This is a must-do when in Moscow.;5;November 16, 2018
beautiful trip;With a ticket it's possible to organize an hop on hop off tour to look all the best metro stops suggested in the guides;4;November 15, 2018
Efficiency and comfort;The Moscow Metro is efficient and operates without problem - well, it did for us.If you are trying to get around in Moscow, take the Metro.;5;November 15, 2018
Amazing Metro;Some of the Metro stations are stunning . We felt very safe traveling on the Metro. The cost of tickets were very reasonable.;5;November 15, 2018
Best Transport in The World;Fantastic experience. Most beautiful metro I have ever seen, the station are like palaces underground. best way of transport. It would take you all week to see all the stations. packed with memorial, cafes and chandeliers.;5;November 15, 2018
Amazing System and Beautiful Stations;We visited Moscow for a week, and made sure to get a metro pass. I cannot say enough good things about the Moscow Metro. For starters, the staff at the metro station spoke English. What is amazing about the Moscow Metro Is that the trains seem to arrive at a frequency of about every three minutes. You literally are always walking up to the train arriving at the platform.The MetroCard allowed us access to both the metro and the buses, making every corner of Moscow accessible to us.Your Google maps  app Will tell you when the trains and buses arrive with great precision.And a number of the metro stations have notable architecture and are a site to behold.;5;November 13, 2018
A first to review a Metro and there is a good reason...;I have tried to explain to people the hows and why the Moscow Metro is incredible. Sure it was created in the 1930's and yes, it is one of the most-used subways in the world...but it is much much more. We did not see two stations look alike as each had it's own unique decor; animal sculptures, mosaics, stained glass, gothic columns, ceramic art, incredible chandeliers and more. One thing that sticks to mind most...zero trash. Yes, zero trash! I see more trash at the first street I pass near my home than I did in all of the Metros. Just amazing.;5;November 12, 2018
Most beautiful metro of the world;Amazing socialist-realist artworks, for the price of a metro ticket. It is really beautiful to get on the metro, stop at every stations in the city centre, to see the wonders created in the middle of the last century. It is a sight that nobody should miss when in Moscow.;5;November 11, 2018
A good experience for been an underground;It is quite interesting to rate an underground public transport as an attraction but I suppose due to the history and some of the artistic value of some of the stations, I would rate it as very good. It is efficient, well organised and luckily not very busy when I used it;4;November 11, 2018
Brilliant;Very good value, a day pass is only about £2 and fantastic value. Make sure you have a good map with English translations of the stations the first time you try. It soon becomes much easier with English prompts for approaching stations,Very safe and clean.;5;November 9, 2018
Incredible;We did not visit all stations but the ones we did see were just amazing...almost art galleries... must drive the locals crazy with the tourists stopping to take in the art;5;November 9, 2018
Great experience of a heritage metro;The stations are beautiful with art work & heritage architecture. The transport facility is efficient & economic in this large city. Very convenient for travelers with all major attractions covered.;4;November 9, 2018
Palaces for people;It is the jewelry of Moscow. Piece of the art made for people by hard and creative workers . Must visit for anyone !!!!!;5;November 8, 2018
Must do;Didn't take any tour but googled Moscow Metro and picked the mpst interesting stations to check out. Each one is a piece of art, well worth spending 1-2 hrs wondering Moscow underground. Doing some metro tour and getting litle bit of background and interesting stories would probably be good idea as well. Ticket to metro is 55 rubles (70 euro cents app.) and when you enter you can stay as much as you want.;5;November 8, 2018
Incredible, exceptional;Nothing I have ever seen before. When one mentions a metro, one thinks of crowded places, sometimes dingy and filthy. The metro stations of Moscow are exceptional. They truly live up to their image as the "palaces of the people.";5;November 8, 2018
Truly a historic exerience;Beautiful architecture made well and maintained, An architectural marvel, The frequencies and time saving that everyone an make,;5;November 8, 2018
Moscow Public transport;Recommend to travel by Moscow metro specially to save time from on road traffic jams, beautiful stations and very comfortable.;5;November 8, 2018
Tourist Day Passes;We traveled to Moscow on lengthy stopovers of 12 hours and two days. On both occasions we took the Aeroexpress Train to the Belorussky Station, then walked to the ticket counter of the Belorussky Subway station.The ticket booth to the far left provides english speaking assistance. On the first day, we ordered a one day pass for 210 rubles. We found this well worth the cost, as each trip on the subway can cost between 30-60 rubles depending on distance, and we were in and out of the subway six times, and took a trolleybus which also accepts the card. On our second trip, we spent two days, and bought a three day pass for 400 rubles. If you are comfortable taking the subway, you can easily explore Moscow more quickly than above ground transport which is prone to delays due to traffic. We planned our trip around using the subway, and covered much of the city. All stations have maps on the walls, but it is best to know the colour lines that you are traveling on in advance. There is english on most signs, but even if there are only Russian characters, don't be intimidated, as they are easily recognised. We downloaded a subway map to a tablet, and it had both Russian and English station names, and we didn't make any mistakes on over 15 transfers. Just remember never rush into a train if you are not absolutely sure where you are going. Even if you do this and head in the wrong direction, just get off at the next station, and review your plan. While travelling on the train, the train direction and next station is shown in the carriage near to the doors, and is also announced in Russian and English. A few of the major stations have information booths, but these are too few to be relied on. Some of the stations can be compared to museums, as there are many sculptures,chandeliers, murals and reliefs. There were a few stations with street musicians which were really good. We actually visited a few stations just to view the art and take photos. Moscovites are generally very helpful, and a few may be able to assist you in English, so don't be afraid to ask.;4;November 7, 2018
Amazing underground system;The Moscow underground is like no other I've seen: many stations are like museums or art galleries. They are worth a visit just to stare at and appreciate. The stations and trains are all clean, too.  There is no graffiti anywhere.  Russians respect public property. Love it!;5;November 7, 2018
Amazing;We did a mini tour of the Metro as part of a bigger tour and were so pleased that we did. We had heard of the different decoration and chandeliers at the different stations and they were just as impressive as we had expected, probably more so.;5;November 7, 2018
What a surprise and how do they do it?!;As this was a business travel, I didn't search much up to do, so when I hit the metro stations, I was in for a surprise. I have been to London, NY, and Japan's metro station, but Moscow crushes them all. The amazing decorations and cleanliness is something they can boast about. Wow;5;November 7, 2018
Unique beauty;Hurry up! Every new Moscow government has been trying so badly to destroy this unique environment by installing modern lighting systems which are rejected by the marble walls, painting plaster details over instead of just cleaning or restoring them, installing new entrance doors while throwing away the historic ones which are still good for the next 50 years or so, replacing the old logical navigation signs with a bunch of displays with very small letters and texts that make no sense (obviously the decision makers never go down there) etc. So hurry up while this unique merge of beauty, history and usefulness still lasts!;5;November 7, 2018
Moscow trip;High quality and well maintained and comfortable! Recommendations for all visitors to Moscow as the best transport.;5;November 7, 2018
Self guided tour;Spent easy morning discovering the fabulous Moscow metro stations. Bought single ticket and was able to easily navigate the coloured lines to access many incredible stations.;5;November 6, 2018
Fastest way to get anywhere in Moscow;Everyday home-to-office-and-back home travel method for Moscow...Most attractive and of tourist interest are Ploschad Revolutsii(plow shade rave o'lucy ear) ...attraction - statues of persons and animals (styled as of 1917-1920 - you can touch for luck the nose of the dog or head of the rooster, check amazingly worked out faces, poses dress, ammunition)- center of Moscow/Red Square, Majakovskaya(may ear cow sky yeah)...attraction - space design + celling painting, also - new entrance (that is not from underground, on the side of the street opposit to Majakovsky statue) design and celling painting - not far from center, Komsomolskaya(come small sky yeah)...attraction - celling painting- close to 3 railway stations(overcrowded all the time), MTsK(moscow circle raiway line) ... attraction - Moscow as it is way out from center ...;5;November 6, 2018
A Moscow Must-See;This is a fun tour, once you get the metro figured out, which was pretty easy.  There are 10 stops along the underground art tour.  You can use a guide, but we went on our own with my Lonely Planet book as a guide.  These stations are beautiful and very photo worthy, each telling its own story.  You can get an all-day metro pass and spend as much time as you want at each station, even leave and explore the area at each if you like, grab some lunch and coffee too. The pass is very inexpensive, so we took advantage of this.  The trains run about every minute and a half, give or take, so if you miss one, no worries, another will be along shortly.  If you have kids, they might get bored, unless they are train fanatics.  Art lovers will enjoy this unique metro tour.;5;November 6, 2018
amazing;Amazing metro with free WIFI. Also, very fast and comfortable. Much better than metro in London or Paris...;5;November 6, 2018
Historical;Historical place with different stops carrying different tastes is the soviet union passing by Ukraine, Tatar and Belarus and documenting the battles since napoleons and hitler It was designed in a very luxurious state in order to make Russian people feel at home and not only the rich guys live in palaces.The weirdest thing is that all pre documented Stalin sculpture were removed because the leader ruled after Stalin wasn’t in good terms with him.;5;November 6, 2018
Excellent for photos.;Loved these places. So easy to get around. Once you have the subway sorted (easy) you can do it yourself. No tour needed.;5;November 6, 2018
Mind-blowing, worth the excursion better with a guide too).;A local METRO tour is well worth the cost of a guide and tour, as you will need to do/see at least eight (8) of the Stalin and/or latter Soviet era stations. Some from 1930's with great "socialist" images, some from 1940's with "war n' effort" pro- founding and some from the 1970's as sheer "plain and ordinary" finishes. make sure you do a train trip too. the trains are clean n' near (......stark even), an old world build (heavy n' hardy) and travel at astronomical speed and with MUCH noise (seems no insulation) and definitely no rubber tyres !!.;5;November 6, 2018
Interesting;The metro in Moscow is a work of art in itself. The stations are decorsted beautifully and each one is unique. The people are less likeky to shove you out of the way than in London! The trains are on time and easy to navigate.  There are announcements in both Russian and English. Some trains also have a board which lights up to show you where on your journey you are. There is even free WiFi! The tickets are super cheap and you can travel on the metro all day if you wish as you only have to use a ticket to get in but not to exit, therefore the price is the same no matter the distance you travel.  The tickets can also be used on the trains, buses and trolley buses.;5;November 6, 2018
Amazing stations and on time travel;This is an amazing experience, like stepping back in time to another era, the stations are all individually designed and each have their own special areas and characters, such as Paintings in the old masters style,. statues of myths, legends and heroes, trains from the present to the 1950's running like clock work in circular track systems that work exceptionally well. The cost for 3 people for 4 days was only £8 or $12, ridiculously cheap and always on time. The staff are all helpful and friendly, this was one of the experiences that made our trip memorable.;5;November 5, 2018
Hidden gem underground;It was a great way to spend a freezing day in Moscow and the cheapest too. The metro stations we visited (see below) were magnificent. We had the best time. We even met a kind Muscovite at a metro station who suggested which metro stations we should visit. We did a lot of research on the internet and got a little overwhelmed. Some sites gave us a list of 20 metro stations. It took us a bit of time to decipher station names with Russian alphabets and deciding on a route. We started off at Arbatskaya (Арба́тская) because it was the closest to our hotel. Arbatskaya/Арба́тская [Line 3 Dark blue]Kiyevskaya/Ки́евская [Line 3 Dark blue]** back on the metro and go on the opposite direction **Ploshchad Revolyutsii/Пло́щадь Револю́ции [Line 3 Dark Blue]** follow the signs from  to Ploshchad Revolyutsii to Teatralnaya - stay underground **Teatralnaya/Театра́льная [Line 2 Green]Belorusskaya/Белору́сская [Line 2 Green]Mayakovskaya/Маяковская [Line 2 Green][Lunch break at Mari Vanna - Pushkinskaya]Belorusskaya/Белору́сская [Change to Line 5 Brown]Novoslobodskya/Новослобо́дская [Line 5 Brown]Prospekt Mira/Проспект Мира [Line 5 Brown]Komsomolskyaya/Комсомо́льская [Line 5 Brown]We went to Kurskaya/Ку́рская [Line 5 Brown] to change to Line 3 Dark blue to go back to Ploshchad Revolyutsii for a break at Gum before heading to St. Basil's Cathedral. We would have visited Dinamo and Park Pobedy (the deepest metro station) too if we had had the time.;5;November 5, 2018
The most interesting subway in the world.;Go and ride in the Moscow subway in late evening and see older and more beautiful  cenrtral stations.We like "Teatral'naya", "Ploschad' Revolucii"", Belorusskaya, Mayakovskayu (it's ArtDeco design) etc.During the day it's a very busy, and not a good attraction.;5;November 4, 2018
Beautiful and so easy to get around - even if you don't speak Russian;On the Circle line you can visit extraordinarily beautiful stations. Trains are frequent and signage is in both cyrillic and roman script and announcements of staions are in English as well as Russian. All in all, we had a great experience travelling on the metro around Moscow.;5;November 4, 2018
full of art.;We took a few pictures of the ceilings throughout the walkway. It shows you history and really well done artwork.;5;November 4, 2018
Nice;Very nice to see a lot of different things but it is not accusable to disable , so take it to consideration .;4;November 3, 2018
Amazing metro system;the moscow metro system is quick and efficient and you save a lot of time beating the traffic overhead. there are many information desks to guide touristseach station has a theme and has murals, paintings, sculptures and chandeliers based on it;4;November 3, 2018
Rapid trains;I was surprised how fast to travel across center of Moscow. Price is low. Stations are very different and beatiful.;5;November 2, 2018
beautiful station;beautiful station & full of art. since short staying in moscow, we just visited Belorussky & Red Square but still pretty. however, since we don't know Russian, so that transit a bit time spending but still ok. enjoy the metro trip & must do it again next time in russia;4;November 2, 2018
I think Best Metro in the World;Moscow metro is one of the best available in the world. Their underground metro network is soo vast and all parts of Moscow are easily accessible because of metro network. The Metro network is started in early 20th century and structures there tells you the history. Some structures are really old and preserved very well. Only one word is required to describe Moscow Metro..... Amazing....!!!!;5;November 1, 2018
Beautiful;Guess it has been said already, but the metro stations are beautiful. The stops are being spoken in english also. Use a Troika card, which give you some discount (36 roebel instead of 55 per ride);5;October 31, 2018
Must visit here....beautiful;How can a station be so busy in such a huge city but be some elegant and beautiful at the same time. Nice surprise as I hadn't seen photos before.;5;October 31, 2018
An unbelievable place - magnificent;I had no idea why our tour included the Moscow Metro. Then I saw a couple of the stations - they took my breath away. I would love to visit again and see them in my own time.;5;October 31, 2018
Impressive;We were impressed with the beautiful interiors, with different topics for each station. Lots of people but never felt crowded. Clean as you couldn't believe it, despite there are no trash cans.;5;October 30, 2018
Marvelous Moscow Metro;OK, NYC.  This is challenge: look at the Moscow Metro to learn HOW TO DO IT!  The whole experience is so superior to NYC metro and many metro lines across the world.  The maps are easy to read, the electronic ticket machines are intuitive and accepts credit cards of course.  The stations often include works of art and a spotless without any trash or graffiti either.;5;October 30, 2018
Get metro maps, and allocate half day;We had this tour by ourself, downloaded the maps, and take the metro. We only had to pay one time, and change metro so many times. Affordable one. Moscow metro were so clean, train came fast and on time, some route can be so busy.;5;October 29, 2018
true beauty;40 of the moscow metro stations are actually heritage sights. beautifully built almost a 100 yrs ago and still well maintained. its a must do on a trip to moscow to try and see atleast 5-10 of the stations. each one is done with a different theme;5;October 29, 2018
September 2018;I would recommend travelling round the metro as it has some beautiful and interesting stations.The trains are clean and punctual.Older travellers are offered seats by younger travellers;5;October 29, 2018
Exceptional Service;The metro stations are beautiful, if a little old and grubby. It is the efficiency and punctuality though which truly impress;5;October 29, 2018
A cultural visit;Culture at its best. I was amazed to see that trains were kept on coming every less than 2 minutes. One moment it was crowded, the next the platform was empty;5;October 29, 2018
Definitely go by Metro;we used the Metro to go to various sites. Clean, reliable, every station we went to was different and I really enjoyed the surprise of different art works;5;October 28, 2018
Must see if you are visiting Moscow;This is a must see if you visit Moscow, absolutely amazing and so clean.  This was going to be an optional trip on our tour, however we did not have the numbers to do, so about seven of us did it on our own, which some guidance on how to use the metro.  People on the stations very helpful, offering to help when we were standing on platform studying our map.;5;October 28, 2018
Unique blend - beauty, history, comfort  and 4.0 technology;Moscow tube is definitely THE landmark of the city - it’s the world unique blend - the blend of history, beauty and 4.0 technology. As most popular public transport Moscow tube is at once the reflection of the city history, blending the beauty of historical monuments, comfort of the platforms and large trains, as well as all achievements of 4.0 technologies - being tuned online to most actual news, including most important sports news and live translations)) For first-time visitors the must-see are Plochad Revolutsii (to gently stroke the nose of the guard dog) and the most amazing pannos of the Mayakovskaya station as well as Teatralnaya station. To remind on how the sport looked back in the 30s, pleas d do visit Dinamo tube station. Each and every station across the network is unique (even the most modern ones) so for Airbnb users each metro travel will be a pleasant journey. Needless to say - Moscow is the country’s largest city,  to fully enjoy - do avoid the traditional rush-hours));5;October 28, 2018
Amazing;Of course, old stations are great, Soviet metro has been one of the most beautiful in the world. But some new station like Spartak, Vystovochnaya, a quite good to spend several minutes there.;4;October 28, 2018
Mesmerizing Metro;We did a circuit of quite a few of the Metro stops and they are very much works of arts in themselves. Very beautifully decorated. The ones we liked were Komsomolskaya, Mayakovskaya, Park Pobedy, Kievskaya, Arbatskaya, Ploschad Revolyutsii, Elektrozavodskaya, Prospekt mira and Novoslobodskaya.;4;October 28, 2018
Amazing experience;Each station offers something else in terms of architecture. Very clean, cheap, safe and comfortable.;5;October 27, 2018
Incredible;I bought a 3 day pass for 415 rbls which gave unlimited travel (72 hrs from exact time of travel). Great value as metro system is big and you can travel to all major sights very easily. Signs in English as well as Russian. Announcements on trains in English too. If unsure, male voice means you are travelling towards centre, and female away from centre. (On Brown circle line, male for clockwise, female for anticlockwise). I found it very safe but crowded particularly in rush hour. Alsi found that people do not have good manners and will push past you to get on first or to a seat ! Stations on Brown line are the lovliest.;5;October 27, 2018
One of the most beautiful metro stations;Moscow metro stations are very artistically designed and showcase some great architectural work. Travelling from one part of the city to other is very easy. We had taken a 3 day unlimited travel pass which also gave us access to bus and tram too . The metro staff is very cooperative and helps you understand the map and locations , they also have separate entry for parents with infants .;5;October 26, 2018
Marto;The metro is very beautiful and comfortable to travel in Moscow and even recommended. Each metro station is different in design;4;October 26, 2018
A great and scenic way around Moscow.;The ticketing is very, very low cost, the trains clean, a bit worn though no different to carriages in other major cities in the world.  However, it is the amazing stations which are like nothing else we have seen in over 30 years of travel.  The stations filled with beautiful marble, granite, chandeliers, bronze statues are overwhelming, as well as the size and height of the platforms, and no graffiti and spotlessly clean.  When in Moscow buy a ticket and see some of the greatest works – underground!;5;October 25, 2018
Definitely worth a visit!;It's not for nothing that this figures on every list of things to visit in Moscow. The impressive marble,mosaiques and other soviet-inspired decorations are worth having a look at! On top of that the trains are very regular (the most we ever waited for the next train was probably 5 minutes) and the stations super clean and well taken-care of.;5;October 25, 2018
Gorgeous;We did the station hopping & managed to cover all he stations which have been listed the top 10 must visit list . Majority of the stations are along the circle / brown line. Each station is unique with its individual design & it’s like an underground art museums,displaying the sophisticated interior decor,fixtures & display.It’s really the best & gorgeous metro system .It’s also the cheapest way to travel around Moscow ,same fare per entry, short or long distance.;4;October 25, 2018
Well working transport;A well working metro transport with all information in russian and english. Many stations are so beautiful. Price is 55 rubels.;4;October 24, 2018
Impressive;It’s worth going on the metro to see all the different stations & the grandeur of the place. I didn’t care if we got lost as it was worth to see all the different styles.;5;October 24, 2018
Subway;Fast, clean with signs in Russian and English-way better than sitting in Moscow horrible traffic! Rather inexpensive and very efficient way to get around !!!;5;October 24, 2018
Don’t miss;Moscow’s metro subway stations are surely  the world’s most beautiful stations. Ong many stations four stand out as moat impressive, including Komsomolskaya station, Mayakovskaya station, Novoslobodskaya, and Revolutionary square (ploshchad Revalyitsii).  You should spend 3-4 hours hopping around the stations and if you simply go out from the train and take pictures at the platform you just have to pay Rub55 per person for every ride as long as you don’t go out.  It is a fun to see people walking and commuting as well. Moscow is one of the world’s most popular subway commuting transportation with over 7m users every day, that almost equal to the combined numbers of London and New York!;5;October 24, 2018
Impeccable;The Metro stations were attractively adorned with features of historical and/or cultural interest. Cleanliness was a point of amazement with ZERO litter.We felt a little sorry for the regular users of the Metro as they had to struggle through groups of tourists and some were a little rough (understandably). Well worth the visit to several stations.;4;October 23, 2018
Like at theater;Well organized,very conveniant and some stations looking like a museumJust an experience in itself.;4;October 23, 2018
Magnificent, stunning, unique;Moscow offers many interesting places, museums and attractions you should try to visit and experience, however the Moscow Metro is absolutely unique!Rather than to organize "Metro tour" in one particular day, we explored it during all 5 days of our visit to Moscow. In order to do so, I have read about Moscow metro before going to Russia (some basic sources as wikipedia will do!), listed all interesting stations and marked them on my metro plan. When we've already been in Moscow and travelled to the places we have had in our agenda, we simply took off at some selected stations. It was enough to begin our "tourist day" about half an hour earlier than originally planned and as the trains are every 90 seconds it didn't dusturb our timetable (neither increased expenditures). This way we have visited more than dozen of metro stations (and took almost a hundred of pictures) during our staying in Moscow. As I often travel to Russia in business, I can also add that Moscow's metro is the most reliable and efficient transport I can imagine, especially comparing the other options for transport in such big city as Moscow is. It is not enough of space here, to write about the history and ideology behind the building the stations neither it is possible to describe (even roughly) all architecture and art work you can find in Moscow metro (and there are also nice superstitions). I am sure that after visiting some stations you will decide to deepen your knowledge yourself.;5;October 23, 2018
Amazing;Imperial place, believe it or not. One of the most important sight-seeing in Moscow. Komsomolskaya station is the best in my opinion. All the circle line has interesting stations.;5;October 22, 2018
Simply stunning;A metro station with a difference for sure. As with most of the structures in Moscow and Russia in general, the metro system is a marvel. The ornate structure and décor in a simple public transport system will have you in awe (and probably wondering why London's looks so drab :( ...Be careful taking photos here though, security do not like it!;5;October 22, 2018
Very busy, the beating heart of Moscow;It’s the beating heart of the biggest city in Europe.  The signs are in tiny fonts and I still find it confusing.The underground architecture is still something to marvel;4;October 22, 2018
Artistic, old, and convenient for some but not all;I personally recommend komsomolskaya (line 5), Kievskaya (line 3/5), Prospekt Mira (line 5), and Novoslobodskaya (line 5) in that order if you have not much time to visit. The good thing about using Troika is it doesn't have a limit on how long you were in the stations because exiting the station does not need you to tap on the card. The stations may be old but they are very useful and convenient for travellers. going to major tourist areas. One can enjoy the stations while take it as a means of transport. Majority of them have its own uniqueness which may not be beautiful looking to some. It's worth exploring the stations.However, since it is old, I noticed it is not friendly to those who has disability situations. There were mostly stairs around within the stations (transferring to another line). Escalators may be available in most from the entrance down to the platform but I see how older folks struggled to walk those flight of stairs.When the train gets crowded, you may not have much place to hold tight on the moving train. Especially when you are short. Maybe because some of the trains are old.People are very polite and considerate in the metro. I never see the high frequency of people giving up seat to more than just older folks. (fyi, not just the seats nearest to the train exit which some considered obligated to give) I am truly amazed.In short, I love the Moscow metro !! (despite the little shortcomings);4;October 22, 2018
Underground Treasure;You do not require a guided tour to visit these wonderful stations. The metro system is easy to navigate especially now the station names are also in English. The stations are not too crowded and there are plenty of photo opportunities.;4;October 22, 2018
Every station is unique.;Trains are very efficient. Ventilation marvelous.  A life time experience. A highly recommended destination.;5;October 22, 2018
Good metro system;Not a bad metro system. Safe, clean, easy to navigate. Food, drinks, shopping available. Better mode of transportation than driving as there aren't much English signage on the highways. Must have your passport and Visa readily available at any time.;4;October 21, 2018
Impressive;Though stations are old, they seemed well-maintained. Trains come very often. Not to forget many of them have artistic interior. Impressive!;5;October 21, 2018
Unbelievable.;Only in Moscow and St Petersburg you would go sightseeing metro stations. Not all of them re equally impressive but plenty are build to impress. Needs to be seen. Strongly recommended.;5;October 21, 2018
LIKE A GALLERY;We visited some metro stations to see the reason that Moscow Metro Stations are famed.In each station that stoped, there was a different type of decoration, with different theme and different material. So it is worthwhile to take a tour in one or two stations, at least.Speaking about the metro of Moscow you must HAVE IN MIND that the most stations has not lift or moving staircase and you must use a lot of stairs. So if you have any walking problem with your knees it is not possible to use all the metro stations.;4;October 21, 2018
Moscow Metro Tour;We booked our Moscow tour with Express to Russia.  It was supposed to be just the city tour and the Kremlin/Red Square tour, but our guide Elena was kind enough to add the Metro Tour.  We just paid her $6 USD to cover the cost of the metro.   So it's like getting a free tour which is icing on the cake.  The Metros are absolutely gorgeous. Highly recommended. We went to several stops and each one was beautiful.....Go Russia!;5;October 19, 2018
Horrible queues at the peak hour. don't go there;Horrible queues at the peak hour which is 6 to 7am and pm. Don't go there during those hours. However, really pretty vintage stations and and wi-fi in trains. They recently introduced we trains that are spacious and even have chargers for phones.;3;October 19, 2018
Age long gem;Succinctly, the Moscow Metro is one of the best in the world. Gets overcrowded but....well...Moscow is a big city.;5;October 18, 2018
Amazing monument;Each Metro station are amazing by architecture and efficient.The underground depth is just wow. Important security staff at the entrance and inside. People are quiet. No pipi smell and dirty corner like in EU. SAFE every all the day;4;October 18, 2018
The Metro stations are beautiful a must see (Moscow);If visiting Moscow, a must do! Take the metro for the experience and to see the beautiful underground metro stations.You can purchase a 20-journey ticket for 747 rub. Approx. $11 USD. This will allow you to travel with ease and not worry about purchasing tickets. The Moscow metro is an extremely efficient subway and trains arrive within minutes. It is very safe to travel using metro, the stations are staffed, and cameras are everywhere. You can also pickup a metro map at some of the stations free in English and Russian. Also, each stop is announced in Russian then in English. So, this was very helpful to us.;5;October 16, 2018
The easiest system in the world;The metro system is super easy to use, the "troika" card is super simple, the metro is very clean and found it to be the quickest way to get from one side of Moscow to another.;5;October 16, 2018
The Metro Tour;We did the tour and as such saw the best of the different lines and learned the history of the stations.  Up close the metro is amazing.;5;October 16, 2018
Moscow Metro;We hopped a few metro stations to view the beautiful installations. This is my first time seeing such beautiful stations...normally its the facade/architecture. Was like walking into a palace! Was awestruck by the beauty.;5;October 15, 2018
Didn’t see enough;Amazing amazing amazing of the few stations I saw. We visited one, on the way to Red Square that has bronze statues of wat heroes (I think), and their digs who should bring good luck.... I believe there are many more stations to see. You pay to go into a station but not to come out. Less crowded than London at rush hour;4;October 15, 2018
Temples of Victory;The Moscow Metro is just awesome!  Really cheap (55p Sterling for a single trip!Many of the stations are tributes to the people of Russia and their experiences through war and revolutions, and are depicted beautifully.The whole Metro is a credit to the country!;5;October 15, 2018
Another must see when visiting Moscow;Majestic, impressive - the Moscow Metro is not to be believed.  Gloriously beautiful and clean (you could eat off the floors here).;5;October 15, 2018
Extraordinary;The Moscow Metro is amazing. Artistic, Clean, Efficient. IMO, it is way more impressive than the Paris Metro -- and the people are friendlier. The monuments at the Revolution Square stop have to be seen to truly be appreciated. Give the metro a visit if you get to Moscow.;5;October 15, 2018
Most reliable transportation;The metro station are quite deep under ground and they connect you with most parts of the city. The price is reasonable and fixed. The attractions of Moscow are mostly within walking distance of these metro lines. Though sometimes it can be crowded, the people of Moscow managed to go through without any pushes or fights.;5;October 15, 2018
Nice metro stations;Moscow metro will tell you about the country's history, geography, culture and architecture. It has  has been created by some of the most b Russian architects. It is a place where every citizen of Moscow spends quite a lot of time every day.;5;October 15, 2018
Metro;OMG what a journey some of these stations are amazing spent a good four hours jumping from line to line to see these amazing stations;5;October 15, 2018
Underground Culture;We manage to use the metro starting by as many diiferent stations as we could in order to visit as many amazing cultural underground places we could.All of them for a "more ocidental european tourist" are stunning!KievskayaArbatskayaLeningradskyTeatralnayaPloshad RevolutsilPark Pobedy Are some we have been in...;5;October 14, 2018
- only in Moscow..;Out of this world a historic subway art could be built. One must see to really appreciate . And it is at the bottom of about 300 meters deep subway.;5;October 14, 2018
Stunning ...;I only saw half  dozen stations but they are all beautiful, each with a different theme.  Lovely mosaics, the ceilings are stunning.;5;October 14, 2018
Stunning architecture;Waiting only 2 minutes for a the train, not crowded except for the peak times. Each and every station has its own identity. Unfortunately not every station is suitcase friendly and one will have to drag it on the staircases;4;October 14, 2018
Cheap and historical;Great way to get around Moscow.  Certain stations are steeped in history and are architecturally lovely.  May need a guide to understand what you are looking at.  How long are those escalators?!?;4;October 14, 2018
Must see and feel!;If you have not been in Moscow metro - you have not been in Moscow!Nice and pretty safe transportation attraction.;5;October 13, 2018
The Brown and Green line;The Art Nouveau inspired design of the metro are mostly on the Brown Line (like the Circle line in London) of about 12 stops. Buy a ticket at RUB55 and you are covered. There are also a couple of outstanding stops on the Green Line also. Two famous ones are: Mayakovikaya and Ploschad Revolyutsii (The latter requires you to walk from the Green Line to the Blue line platform. It is a fair walk of 10-15 minutes having to find your way from line to line and to the right platform).  It's a fun thing to do (all indoor) for about 15 minutes if you just hop on and off on the Brown Line. But will need half an hour if you want to also cover these two platforms o. The Green Line.;5;October 13, 2018
Just buy a metro ticket and see the best stations;The metro is stunning and easy to use don’t bother with an organised trip do it yourself  . But a single metro ticket ( 55 roubles) don’t go out of the stations lookup the 8 or 10 best stations and ride the trains .The architecture and decoration is truly amazing and every station is different set aside about 3.5 hours;5;October 13, 2018
A transport system that doubles as a tourist attraction;We used the metro while we were here for its main purpose of transporting us from place to place. It was quick and clean and not too crowded when we were there. A number of the main stations are also very ornate and it is worth taking the time to check them out.;5;October 12, 2018
Abeautiful;The metro stations are very clean and some of them are really beautiful.You really need to see for yourself;5;October 12, 2018
Cheap yet amazing tour;If you sort out logistics well, then in will take just around 1 hour to visit all the most picturesque and beautiful subway stations. Considering you buy just 1 way ticket, this is by far one of the cheapest attractions in Moscow.;5;October 12, 2018
Must see;When I heard about the Moscow Metro as something to see, I really didn't get it.  But after riding the Metro and visiting several stations, I wouldn't miss it.  Each station is a museum unto itself, and the efficiency of the Metro itself is unlike any other Metro I have ridden on.;5;October 12, 2018
never done this before!;Usually the metro is a means of getting around.  However, in Moscow it is also an end in itself.  Our on board guide gave us a list of stations worth visiting and we planned a route coming out from the port, changing on to the circle line and finally changing on to another line to take us into the centre.  It was true!  These stations are fabulous, beautifully crafted and not a hint of graffiti.  They were like mini museums.  I don't know whether the Moscovites get used to seeing such beauty when they travel to work but it was uplifting for me.  The metro is really cheap and our route meant we saw a few without really delaying our visit to the centre.  Definitely worth doing.;4;October 11, 2018
Good work;Each station is a kind of art. Fascinating... During rush hours people are almost running, that is a little difficult to get used to. I never used taxi during my stay.;5;October 11, 2018
Even better than expected;We visited 15 of the top reviewed stations over 3.5 hour period.  All unique and fascinating. Signs, maps and announcements were all in English and Russian so no problems finding our way around. The tickets were easy to buy from the ticket office.;5;October 11, 2018
Great Metro with interesting things to look at;Reading Cryllic script is tough, but once you work it out, you can travel the metro system and get exactly where you need to go reading local maps. The metro is quick, clean and efficient (and cheap). Great people watching. This metro gets you to wherever you need to go without any hassle at all. The platforms and underground in general are designed and constructed in various attempts at some grand styles which are nice and interesting to look at. If you compare this to say, the NYC underground or London underground, the Moscow Metro wins on every score;5;October 10, 2018
We could not believe that few Metro stations decorated as museums with spacious platforms and artistic historical carvin;These metro stations are really worth visiting and spending some time to appreciate the great vision of leaders who were responsible for it We were amazed at the intention of those leaders to design and implement such historical monuments Any body visiting Russia should visit these metro stations;5;October 10, 2018
A must-see;Heard so much about the Moscow metro and finally got to see it in person.  Was whisked through 3 popular stations (Komsomolskaya, Kievskaya and Ploschad Revolution) by our guide.  No hassle at all.  Was truly impressed by the place.  Was equally impressed by the history of it.  It was said that when Stalin announced plans for its construction in the 1930s, loyal communists turned out in droves to lend a hand.  Thousands of people toiled around the clock in dire conditions, using pickaxes and spades and hand-pulled trolleys.  What a history.;5;October 10, 2018
Great designs;Actually, expected more nicer than this as i could see from photos. Probably it may be because photos were adjusted colors to be more attractive than its real.However, the metro has its own histories, unique design by itself. All looked great, and you may need to spend time to look around and see them.;4;October 10, 2018
Impressed by efficacy of transportation and grandeur of premisses.;Stations vary a lot in artistic level. The really artistic ones are located in Central Moscow. Those are really splendid.At least one has very good taste Soviet sculptures. One about a man and his dog was touching. They are all good.Grand chandeliers,  mosaics,  etc.To be avoided by claustrophobic people:  we take an  escalator to go in and out of the subway. The subway is very deep in the ground. My guide told me he had a terrible experience accompanying a tourist who was claustrophobic:  she had a panic attack and she was very hard to manage, physically. The metro is a very handy way to travel in Moscow.;5;October 9, 2018
Great transportation and some spectacular metrostations;The best way of getting around. Buy the Troika card and fill up travel money. Also download the Moscow Metro app. There even are metrostation guided tours if you are so inclined or go by yourself. You might consider some hearing protection though because it's LOUD...;4;October 9, 2018
The best I have seen;Moscow Metro rates very high, perhaps the highest among all that I have seen and travelled in so far and I have certainly seen the good ones. The moscow metro  stations are a delight for the creative, they have the splendour of palaces, with arches and mosaic ceilings depicting historical scenes and have an old world charm which is simply endearing. The train compartments also have the old world charm to them contrary to the clinically modern metros of Singapore and Dubai. For those who value the practical aspects, the metro is the best way to travel because the frequency of the trains is simply outstanding. In my 7 day holday period, I did not have to wait for any train at any metro station for more than a few seconds!!!! That's how good it is and the connectivity is also outstanding. Simply loved it.;5;October 9, 2018
Tour;Get a free tour .. beautiful and fun .. not worth hiring an actual tour. Just tip the free tour guide.. it ll be good enough.;5;October 9, 2018
did not disappoint;Went to 5 on the first day and another 5 on the second day..Called the People's Palaces they were well maintained. do not smell, very clean and there were  no grafitti on the walls.;5;October 8, 2018
Jaw breathing and breath taking metro;Each and every station in the Circle line is fantastic.  Every station is a monument and attraction. It is breath taking and interesting.;5;October 8, 2018
Very disgusting transport system;Please do not come to russia!People are very rough and everyday encounter very disgusting experiences and environments.The buses are very old and card sensors is not worked But people who check ticket cards didnot know their faults and they only know how to take money from foreigners.It is really happened and very disgusting.The worst thing is they don't speak english and u have no chance to explain.So,the best idea I give to u is never come to russia!;1;October 8, 2018
Moscow Underground;The Moscow subway was constructed on Stalin's orders to showcase the advantages of socialism. Russia has since turned to a free market economy, but the subway remains and efficiently transports millions of  Moscovites daily. The ornate stations were meant to celebrate the accomplishments of the Soviet regime but remain today as exhibitions of great cultural value. The trains are well maintained and clean and traverse a star-like network of lines that is still expanding to bring the periphery closer to city center.;4;October 8, 2018
Probably the best underground in Europe and in the world!;Moscow Metro is the underground of the city, where you can see a lot of wonderful stations. In fact, it is the most fantastic inheritance of soviets in the city. It is pragmatic (a very big and fast subway) and artistic (a lot of stations with statues, pictures and some of them seem palaces) place. For me the best visit in the city. Really great! I recommend you obtain information about the most magnificent stops and visit all of them. We visit about 15 stations during half day and they were incredible. A Top in the city!;5;October 8, 2018
Wow - Impressive;What a wonderful way to travel in Moscow.   One can travel around the city using the metro network and admire the design and artwork along the way.  It’s clean, fast and extremely easy to navigate.  The fare is also very cheap.  If you dont have a lot of time, an organised tour of the metro would be preferable so that you wont miss any hidden gem.  Truly impressive and not to be missed!;5;October 8, 2018
So much fun!;The Moscow Metro has an extensive network and I appreciate that you can reach most if not all of the city's attractions via the metro. Navigating the metro is really fun in itself and definitely a must-do in Moscow. Be sure to buy the Troika card (a stored value card) from any station and each ride will just cost you a flat rate of 36RUB no matter the number of stops, super cheap! Also, download the Yandex Metro app and it will show you the most direct route to get from point A to B. I saved a picture of the whole metro network on my phone which served as a useful quick reference. The metro is super efficient with trains arriving every minute so don't worry if you miss a train. Be prepared for crowds, lots of walking while changing lines and note that the stations are unfortunately not disabled-friendly.;5;October 8, 2018
An 'art' experience!!!;We just bought a metro ticket and hopped off at each station to take in the amazing lighting and art work in each stop. Great experience.;5;October 7, 2018
Inexpensive way to travel;The network is extensive and it’s very cheap to travel - around 55 rubles one way.  Some of the stations are a work of art so do some homework and decide what lines to experience. There is now an English translation to announce stations but it very important to have a map with station names The trains are old but clean although there are very noisy which dampens conversation. 29 minutes in the metro is equivalent to 60 minutes in a taxi!;5;October 7, 2018
Stroller inaccessible !;Sure it's most beautiful metro in the world . But luck if elevators or just wheelchair ramps is just heartbreaking. Moms must care strollers over multiple staircases , hoping for the strangers assistance. Pushkinskaya is the worst.;2;October 7, 2018
More efficient than NYC metro, but could be stopped by Moscow police;I thought I was racially profiled by the Moscow police. I was in Moscow metro with my friend from Nigeria and the Moscow police stopped us to ask for our papers. The police seem surprised I was American. They did check to see if I had my Russian tourist visa which I did and they asked me for the passport control registration slip that I had and they thanked me. Once they reviewed my friend’s papers, they let us go. Being Black American, I’m thinking, was we racially profiled? I’ve asked my friend and he said no they do it to everybody regardless of their background, but I think the target could be those who are in Moscow illegally. So, the more of the story is don’t just have a copy of your passport and Russia, Kuri your real passport and any type of papers you get from the Russian passport control. Anyway, the reason I gave the Moscow metro 4-stars is not because of the police or that it fails in any kind of way. It’s because the system is so vast with tunnels and long escalator rights that for the novice, can be overwhelming. It took me about a year to be comfortable navigating New York City’s metro system and I would say it would take 1 year or even more for person to get comfortable navigating the Moscow metro. But it’s still way better than NYC Metro.;4;October 6, 2018
Wonderful!! Every train station is a spotlight itself.;We spent almost 2 hours dropping by some famous stations. It's also the deepest metro in the world. Looks old but classic, not out of fashion at all. So stunned about the technique in long time ago.;5;October 6, 2018
Stunning architecture;We visited seven stations. Each was very different but all were designed to portray power and authority of the state and its people. Why such magnificent architectural 'palaces' were built to service an underground train system is debatable but the results are a must see for any Moscow visitor.;5;October 6, 2018
The best way to travel and to admire;Moscow Subway is the best way to travel. This is the fastest way to reach your spot in the town. It is very noisy but every station is a jewel one of the kind.;5;October 4, 2018
Moscow Subway;Moscow Subway looks like a museum. Different Subway stations have different types of beautiful chandeliers and lighting, stained glass and regular artwork. It is spotless clean even though so many people using daily since it’s their main type of transportation. The trains come right on time as scheduled and it is a tourist’s must see place.;5;October 3, 2018
Nice at some stations with pretty architecture;Worth going there to see the people rushing around like ants. No need to rush the next train is usually less than 1 minute!;4;October 3, 2018
Hilarious experience;We were to take the train on sunday as there would be less crowd.However it happened that we travelled on a working day that too in peak hour with trains packed but definitely not like mumbai.Lol.we were a group of forty and the tour guide from Moscow told us to get in and get off after three station.We got in like giggling and loud laughter.Russians looked at us with amusement.we pushed and got off after three stops. We thought it was over. The guide than took us back returning to the station we got in that is victor park.It was fun and i think the tour guide dud a good job.When u visit victory park please use the metro for few station only.The stations are beautifully done up and the experience is a great memory.;5;October 3, 2018
Amazing - beautiful, clean and efficient.;The Metro is amazing, no 2 stations are the same and the quality of workmanship is phenomenal. The efficiency is also wonderful, never very long to wait and the colour coded lines make it simple even for non Russian speakers.;5;October 3, 2018
An  underground museum.;You have to see the old metro stations, they are a work of art in themselves. Each station has something to offer from statues to murals through to the decor. Surprisingly clean given the flow of passengers. Beware,ast moving escaltors!;5;October 3, 2018
Best Metros in the world;Moscow metros beats the likes of Paris, Berlin and I dare say even London in terms of its beauty.  Easy and safe to ride, they are not only beautiful and elegant but many of them are work of art itself.;5;October 3, 2018
Metro as theatere;One of themost beatiful transport place in the world, spirit of culture and history used every day by people;5;October 2, 2018
Moscow Metros;As a part of our Moscow tour, we visited two separate metro stations.  They are very clean and much nicer than anything we have in the US.  There are statues (rubbed for good luck by passengers) and art that makes transportation more pleasant.  I have seen photos of others that are nicer than the two we visited, but time was limited by our tour guide.;4;October 2, 2018
Very impressive metro and very large also.;I've never seen a metro as clean and spacious as this one in Moscow. Beautifully decorated--painting on the ceilings and stained glass on the walls. No graffiti anywhere--a truly exceptional metro.;5;October 2, 2018
the best metro in the world;The design and the architecture and the good maintenance of the metro give me the best impression of this facilities and its a must;5;October 2, 2018
Amazing place;Moscow subway is fantastic place for must see and visit in Russia. For citizens it’s the only one transport that help to be in time at any place. At the same time it’s the museum with unique stations with different features like pictures and monuments. One of the best laces for photos and wishes. You should definitely visit it because Moscow subway is one of the most beautiful in the world.;5;October 2, 2018
The Art in Moscow Metro Stations;I never thought to find this much variety of Art in Moscow Metro stations . You'll be surprised with the amount of Art.  Each Station has different style . It's a must see place . Highly recommended;5;October 2, 2018
In expensive tour you can do yourself and stay amazed;We visited 7 metro stations on or close to the circle line mentioned as a worth to be visited. Using metro in Moscow is not just smart for travel but it is as well a holiday for the artistic eye.;5;October 2, 2018
Metro Magic;Very easy to use and very good fo getting around Moscow.There are 14 lines in all to take you virtually anywhere you want to go throughout the city. At 55rubles a ticket (110 return) you can’t go wrong !!!;4;October 2, 2018
Moscow Metro;One of the most reliable metro services in the world. Trains arrive at regular intervals of about 1 and a half to 2 minutes. Older carriages being replaced by modern state of the art carriages with free wi-fi and charging points. New stations are opening on existing lines and new lines are being built. The new stations are modern in design whereas the central stations retain their unique identities of individual architectural beauty. For the World Cup some key central station ticket kiosk staff learnt basic English and station announcements are also made in English. The metro map also contains English translations of station names. In both winter and summer it can get hot and stuffy, making it a litle unpleasant on older trains, but the new trains are air conditioned. Travel is good value for money and there is a simple ticketing structure. Changing lines at interchanges is also very easy with clear signage with English translations now the norm.;4;October 2, 2018
Great sight as well as so easy to use!;We experienced the metro as part of a half day tour on our first day.  Great trip in itself, the stations are well worth the visit, but it gave us the confidence to use it extensively across the following week. Fast, convenient, very inexpesive and people very calm and polite even at very busy times.  The way they allow a spare step behind each person on the escalator means you never feel crowded.;5;October 2, 2018
Underground Art;Visited several metro stations and was amazed with the collections of paintings, the architectural designs and sculptures.Each station was a like an art museum and no wonder the metro is voted one of the best in the world.A must visit.;5;October 2, 2018
You cannot imagine how beatiful an undeground may be;Hire a guide for a 2-3-hour tour. The best time to start is 9pm when the central stations are not so busy as at rush hours. If you chose a right guide (history and mineral knowledge are necessary as decoration story is also fantastic) you will be surprised how amazing an undeground can be.;5;October 2, 2018
A must for the historical architectural interest;The whole metro in Moscow is on it own a attraction worth visiting. I bet you can spend a couple of days just riding the metro and looking at different stations with its stonework, architecture and statues.;4;October 1, 2018
Simply amazing!;Now that we have toured these underground palaces with trains that arrive every 3 minutes, how can we ever ride regular transit ever again?;5;October 1, 2018
Wish our stations were like this.;The metro was the reason I wanted to go to Moscow and I wasn’t disappointed. Probably better to have a guide to get the most out of it.;5;September 30, 2018
The Underground Art Palace;Moscow Subway – It is also known as the underground palace or “Marble Subway “. Whether it is the decoration of the gate or the platform, it is magnificent and gorgeous. Sculptures and reliefs turn the entire subway station into an aesthetically pleasing art gallery.;4;September 30, 2018
Very efficient, clean and some beautiful architecture.;We were taken for a tour and went to three of the most beautiful stations. You have to see it to believe it. We were amazed at the cleanliness and the beauty of the architecture. What a great way to travel.;5;September 30, 2018
Short Stop Only;The metro is nice here, but liked it better in St. Petersburg.  You don't need much time to see it, we only did a short ride.;4;September 29, 2018
Metro Stations - WOW;We picked up a Moscow City guide at the airport when we arrived. In there was a listing of the 5 must see metro stations. We marked them on the metro map in the booklet and whenever we were close to one of those stations we got off and took photos and then got back on. The metro is so reasonable - 55 rubles for each trip. You can get off and back on without paying more. You can even go up the escalator and take photos in the lobby area and as long as you don't go through the "exit" you can go back down the escalator and continue on your way for your 55 rubles. We did this all on our own - no tour guide.If you're visiting Moscow - you must see at least a couple of the metro stations.;5;September 28, 2018
Open exibition;If you have a time, spend couple of hours navigating through Moscow metro stations with wall murals. We did, and we werent dissapointed at all!;5;September 28, 2018
Regular metro, helping tourists.;We took the train from the airport to the red square. We were afraid it will be a problem but information really helped. it cost me 110 ruble go and back (this is not the euro express).;4;September 28, 2018
Stalin’s luxuary gift to the people.;Impressing deep metro diggiing in the depths of Moscow for speeding passengers rapidly and inexpensively through the city. The stations are often lavishly decorated with statues, gold, oaintings, works of art, making it as a free museum, worth seeing.;4;September 27, 2018
It is very efficient, fast - if you’re ready to walk...;Moscow traffic is, in one word... terrible. The Metro provides an excellent fast and efficient service. Expect to wait, with most lines, about 20-30 seconds for the next train. If you are limited, not to say disabled in any way, the Moscow metro is not for you, they don’t even make an effort... still it is the best way to travel in Moscow!;4;September 27, 2018
Spectacular soviet art-nouveau for the cost of one metro ticket;The Moscow metro has a couple of stunning stations, a must-see for any visitor.  All at the cost of a few roubles only and would take you not much more than an hour and a half.  Most of these are on the circular (brown, line 5) route and were built in the 1930's.  Particularly stunning is Mayakovskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Komsomolskaya, and Kievskaya.;5;September 26, 2018
amazing!;The best two lines are the brown one (the circular) and the number 1 the red. All the stops are amazingly decorated. It is better than a museum;5;September 26, 2018
Museum like metro stations;We made a hop on-hop off metro travel with line 5, got off every station, admired the sovietic art-nouveau wall decorations,  celilings, chandeliers. Very well kept. It'a amazing how much work was invested for a "tube". I think it's unique and a must.;5;September 26, 2018
Nice tour of the Metro system;We took a guided tour of the Moscow metro system.  Very informative;  was not aware that many of the metro stops had their own theme.  In a few of them, there were also musicians performing whose music was fantastic due to the structure of the metros.  Very clean and well kept areas as compared to many other larger cities;5;September 25, 2018
Utterly enamoured!;I could spend a week on the metro. The stations are breathtaking, the history is incredible and I just want to learn more. So clean, spacious, airy, beautiful and very mile to use. Down load the metro app which will show you the best route, a great feature.;5;September 25, 2018
Quite Dramatic Stations;There are quite a lot of stations built in the 1950s that are really dramatic. Many have battle scenes and statues of workers and peasants with their animals. The staff are really helpful and a lot of notices are in English. If you want to be very adventurous you can go on the line just finished in August 2018.;5;September 25, 2018
Don't miss;Every station is a marvel of artistry from murals, to carvings, to sculptures. A complete contradiction to "Soviet" style architecture the metro will impress at every stop. I strongly suggest that you take the the tour with a knowledgeable guide who will be able to take you from different, interesting station in the shortest time. And, do it in the evening when the crowds have dissipated;5;September 25, 2018
Magnificent!!!;Coming from NYC and our subway system, this was really impressive.  Yes, there are crystal chandeliers and the stations are incredibly wide.  Very busy even past commuter times.  Our guide took us on a real ride over a few stations.  Only bad remark I can make is that the trains are very noisy.;5;September 24, 2018
Beautiful;I went on a city tour that included a good hour of going around through various metro stops.  Sculpture.  Paintings.  Communist propaganda.  It's got everything.  And the metro runs every 1 minute during rush hour and 2 minutes during other times - extremely efficient, considering that some of the metro cars look like they've been around since the 1930s.;5;September 24, 2018
A great experience;For 55 rubles you can travel on this extremely efficient metro system, the stations are a work of art. The circle line having some of the best examples of these amazing stations. Staff are helpful , some trains are older with no AC , but everywhere is very clean . A great way to spend an hour or so on a budget.;5;September 24, 2018
Beautiful and easy to use.;For about 50 cents per use you can get most anywhere in the city.  Signs are in russian and english.  Lines are well marked by color and number.;5;September 24, 2018
Get of the train;The metro circle is a must. This efficient train service is cheap ($1.30AUD)and you can travel the circle all day. A train departs every 90 seconds. Make a point of getting off the train on the city circle at each stop . The stations are all very different but incredible and something I have never seen anywhere in the world, every station is "themed" and you will be amazed at how lavish they are.;5;September 23, 2018
puts the london underground to shame;Amazing experience even for me even though I have a fear of the underground.The art work, sculptures and chandeliers are spectacular. Very busy down there but well worth a visit to say you have been!;4;September 23, 2018
It's a Subway;Portrayed by the local literature (and guides) as a "most modern" subway system we were very excited about the ride.  Then, when we finally got to the station it became painfully obvious that Moscow's Metro was no more modern than any other city's system built in the 60's.  It works and does what you need - but not exactly modern.;3;September 22, 2018
Beautiful stations and very spacious;Old Metro station in Moscow are very deep and really spacious, so are the carriages (compared to London Underground) and it a very cheap way to go around if you in Moscow. Most ticket office does has people who can speak English to assist foreigners. Some station got very nice art/ history items on displace. Should use the Metro to see it. Recommended;5;September 22, 2018
Best way to move in Moscow;It is really the best way, taxis are senseless if you go to the city. There are some nice Stations where you have exquisite architecture.;5;September 21, 2018
Beautiful!;A metro line you have never before seen!  It is clean and efficient.  The metro stops seem to all be beautiful.  Who would have thought this is a “must see”.;5;September 21, 2018
amazing;we went for quite a few rides on the metro and were impressed. with the thousends of passengers all the time it is the fastest ride and goes every couple of minutes. it sure beats the traffic.  also the people are polite and always let elderly people sit;5;September 21, 2018
Moscow Visit;Moscow metro is very impressive and unlike any other. While it is very deep, it is also very elegant and charming with many sculptors and paintings. There are themes attached to the decorations at many stations. The service is very prompt and timely and it is very easy to navigate. It is a very convenient mode of transport while in Moscow;5;September 21, 2018
A real life museum;The Moscow Metro is the place where you can enjoy the beautiful architecture while doing nothing but exploring everything station by station. You will find out that every station has its own style and story and none are similar  to the other. It is like going to a museum but paying only 1 ticket for more museums. Of course, it is said and true from what I have seen that the most exceptional stations are the one from the Small Circle ( if you take a look at the map of Metro station in Moscow you will see that there is a circular line in the middle ). The other station are also amazing, but the architecture and style... they are new, they are more contemporary. But it is a great thing to do while is Moscow.Oh, and let's not forget taking the stairs to go up, place where you spend about 2 minutes to get to the ground, this is how deep down their metro stations are.;5;September 20, 2018
Stairs;The stations are absolutely beautiful, and the metro is overall comfortable.My only complaint is the necessity to climb stairs up and down sometimes (mostly when changing lines) which may be a nuisance if you have heavy luggage or mobility restrictions.;4;September 20, 2018
Amazing;If you arrived in Moscow and did not even reserve a day to go by underground and to admire the most beautiful stations, you missed an opportunity that you do not meet too often in life! Apart from the fact that it is very easy to use, all the information is available in English, the houses are English speakers, have tourist information points and is perhaps the cheapest but by far one of the most spectacular attractions of the capital . Need to see!;5;September 20, 2018
Very loud trains with squealing breaks but inspiring decor;I enjoyed this tour with our private guide who was knowledgeable and informative. It was very noisy and difficult to hear at times but I’d like to see Sydney stations give a bit ore character;4;September 19, 2018
Safe and fast;Each time in Moscow use this transport, best is Trojka card with unlimited entrance. This is fastes way thru city. Nothing better is in offer. Metro have a nice interieur and architecture.;5;September 18, 2018
Metro stations - Underground musems;The Russian metro has many beautiful stations, once you have bought a single ticket hop on and off at your leisure, as long as you don't leave the metro you can travel all day. Single tickets are about £1.All announcements are in Russian and English so it is quite easy once you have a metro map.The trains come along every minute or so.There is no need to book an expensive tour to explore the metro, it is safe clean and highly recommended.;5;September 18, 2018
Perfect but No English;The subway is in no need for comments. Very practical and clean. Believe or not every station tells a story. Very affordable would recommend if you’re not looking for site seeing.;4;September 18, 2018
Amazing Metro;Well worth seeing the Metro in Moscow even if you never take a train. Amazing artworks depicting Russian history that will leave you open-mouthed. Best to hop on a train and go from station to station sightseeing.;5;September 18, 2018
Wow!;You would never believe that the metro is so stunningly beautiful. The older stations of the 1920s & '30s have pictures & carvings from that era full of Communist propaganda. Wonderfully photogenic. As regards the Metro as a whole, they have an "I speak English" cashier at most stations who is very helpful & it is colour coded - even I didn't get lost & we had to change platforms!!!;5;September 18, 2018
You must see it to believe it.;Moscow's subway system is immaculately clean,super-efficient, and open approximately 20 hours a day.  It puts New York City's filthy, antiquated, delay-prone and rat-infested subway to shame.;5;September 18, 2018
Moscow Metro is Gorgeous!;I have never seen more beautiful public place like the Metro of Moscow.Also please keep in mind that 9 million people use it everyday and it's impeccable, clean, perfect.It was a wonderful experience to see it and use it.;5;September 17, 2018
Beautiful;Took a short ride on the Metro as part of a guided tour, stations were very clean lots of statues and stunning art work. Would definitly recommend a trip.;4;September 17, 2018
Great Connectivity, easy approach;The whole city is connected underground. The stations are clean and easy approachable. The big ones have a whole shopping arcade underneath. Not to be missed out if you visit Moscow.;5;September 17, 2018
Nicest Metro I have ever seen;I normally avoid Metros in big cities since they do not inspire me, are normally not nice and extremely dirty. I was more than pleased with the Metro in Moscow - beautiful and super clean - did not see even a cigarette butt on the pavements. Compliments !;5;September 17, 2018
The most pretty underground in the world!;Moscow underground is the most convenient way to travel around town - there are lots of stations, train delays are very rare, pretty easy to buy a travel card (now you can pay with credit card as well and on some stations cashiers speak English), navigation on the platform and the map inside the train is translated in English, stations are announced in English as well. For an even easier commute make sure to download Yandex Metro app. But apart from being a public transport Moscow metro is a work of art in itself with all the marble, decorations, mosaics, pillars and even paintings on the walls and ceiling. There are pretty old stations and interesting new ones as well. For me the prettiest old stations are Komsomolskaya (brown/circular line) and Arbatskaya (dark blue line). Of the new ones quite impressive is CSKA, where you can see the statues of sportsmen.;5;September 17, 2018
ARTISTIC;Must see place in Moscow, they are different at every station, they are like art stations which you need to see believe it. better to keep one guide to understand everything in detail;5;September 17, 2018
55 rub for a self planned metro tour;I think there is no need for booking a tour cause its very easy to visit all metro station n see these masterpiece for just 55 rub unless u need to hear the histories by the ears. I picked some best stations to visit then plan a metro-visit route. It took me 1 hour to visit 3-4 most beautiful stations.;5;September 17, 2018
The mos beautiful metro in the world;Subway in Moscow is incredible. fast and with internet but the best is the stations. The most part of the stations are very beautiful. Line 1 and 2 are older and have the most beautiful.;5;September 16, 2018
Old and grand, new and clean;The original metro line platforms and stations are a must. Grand old dames with chandeliers and mosaic tiles. Just stunning. The trains of these lines are the same age and felt like Russian tanks on wheels. The newest metro lines and stations are world class. Now that the world cup is finished, most of the signs are in both Russian and English which helped. Be careful when exiting a station where the lines cross as you'll pop up not where you intended.;4;September 16, 2018
Russian Trip during World Cup;The Metro in Moscow is really clean and convenient. All you have to do is to buy a token and regardless of the number of stops, the fare is the same. The floors of the metro are really clean. Another beautiful place is Gumm departmental store. It is so beautifully lit up at night. Moscow is a great place to visit..The cathedrals are beautiful . What surprised me most were the clean streets. I saw cleaners sweeping and washing down the streets and Square well into the night. And the taxi Drivers are courteous and honest ( can’t speak good English but they have a meter in the cab) Definitely worth visiting.;4;September 16, 2018
An Absolute Must;The best Metro system that I have ever seen and a must do when in Moscow. Some of the stations are stunning and a museum in their own right. One price will take you to any station and your trip is only over when you surface. With trains in peak times every 45 seconds it is also very efficient. Be aware of Puck pickets as some stations do get very busy and always stand to the right on escalators or you may have some grumpy locals asking you to move!;5;September 16, 2018
The best way to get around;The metro is fast clean beautiful . You have free WiFi in the wagon This is the best way to avoid the traffic and move around Moscow;5;September 16, 2018
The palace under the city;Moscow Metro is not the oldest one in the world but it's big, good looking and MB the best way to explore city. Now the metro has 220+ stations and it's going outside the city to the Big Moscow area. And it's connected with the circle line of overground metro MCC.Lots of marble, lights, statues, columns, arches.All these attract tourists to see the beauty and grandeur of old 30th-40th-50th 20th century stations.What about new stations - most of them are nothing special, many new lines are build following one design - they are just modern.What about cars. There are lots of types, but the most actual are pretty fine. You have air conditioner, low noise, USB chargers, comfortable handrails and you can go the whole train by cause there are no doors between cars.I'd recommend to install app(form Yandex for example) to ease navigation. It's too complicated to understand where to go if you are here for the first time(do not forget about the number of stations).Hope one day metro will come to airports.;5;September 16, 2018
Give a try;I heard a lot about the Moscow metro however I also think that it is a little bit too much. I realize how interesting it is once I had my own tour. I did not book any tourguide but I check online routes and I discover some of the most amazing ones!;5;September 16, 2018
Wow!;We had a guided tour around the Metro station which was a revelation. Each station is decorated with a different theme.;5;September 16, 2018
Excellant;Absolutely brilliant way to get around Moscow. Fast efficient service, a metro every minute on each line, very easy to understand and what stations they are like stately homes. Very cheap way to travel too. We got a Trosky card, similar to Londons Oyster card and put 500 ruble on it, travelled all over and only used half of it, so maybe only put 250 on they can be topped up.;5;September 16, 2018
Do metros leave straight from concert halls?;Moscow’s metro system is around 80 years old and it has 200+ stations. With the cost of one ticket you can ride as many metros lines as you wish, stop, change, carry on as long as you dont come out of the metro. There is no time limit and tickets are not by zones so no brainer what to buy. Use the machines when purchasing tickets to avoid the q.Some of the metro stations are very very beautiful, others are true communist memorabilia.My favourites were: Komsomolskaya, Kiyevskaya, Mayakovskaya;5;September 15, 2018
Moscow taxis;A poorly regulated nightmare which can be difficult to combat if you don’t speak the language when negotiating fares is almost impossible. If you’ve luggage in the boot, you can’t drop money on the seat and go. That would risk you ending up travelling very light. The unscrupulous prowl airports and railway stations (not uncommon globally) - here, apps like Yandex and Uber give a better chance (preboooking certainly appears to help) but registering your phone number if it’s not Russian may not allow access. Hailing a taxi off the street cold is an option for the adventurous or those not on a budget. If you’re lucky enough to be staying at a  hotel with helpful staff, there’s a good chance of assistance, but even so it’s not fireproof. It appears photographing a licence plate (and planning to report them  - in practical terms, is it likely to help you?) has a significant deterrent effect, but some will still try it on. Organising airport/railway-hotel transfers in advance  may seem expensive initially but should give certainty - if you’re willing to take the cab drivers on without prebooking, or feel you’ve something to prove, fine, but minimising this sort of aggravation especially after tumbling out of a long haul flight has its attractions. Moscow’s image as a destination is unlikely to be significantly compromised just because of its taxi service (there are too many good things to see) but for (semi-) independent travellers, this one aspect of the experience that can be a challenge.;1;September 15, 2018
An absolute must see in Moscow;Do a tour and see some of the fabulous stations. Apart from being efficiency, clean and cheap it has some amazing architecture;5;September 15, 2018
A must visit;Did a whistle stop visit with a local guide travelling to six of the best stations. Each station had different Art Deco decor which was stunning. Visited in their evening rush hours which was no ware as crowded as the London Underground.;4;September 15, 2018
Choose your station carefully;The 5 star rating is in relation to other underground systems (it doesn’t mean it’s as inspiring as Red Square, for example). Nonetheless.  It must be said that some of the stations are stunning - they should not be missed when visiting Moscow.;5;September 15, 2018
Very Smooth;Travelling by Metro in Moscow was very easy, efficient and fun! Buying tickets is simple, the trains are fresh and the Moscow station is magnificent and a tourist attraction in it self!;5;September 14, 2018
Russian precision;5 levels of stations, a train every minute at each station, in each direction. Stations are beautifully decorated and our guide told us that this was done to encourage locals to use the trains, and it works. Mid morning and the carriages are full.;5;September 14, 2018
Excellent;Moscow metro is the most amazing metro I have ever seen. The metro stations are very beautiful and tourist take special tours to see the metro stations .These metro station look like a palace .;5;September 14, 2018
Well worth visiting;The art work in the Moscow metro is very interesting. It is worth taking some time to wander and see the depictions of Soviet life. And the steep escalator is worth the ride too.;4;September 13, 2018
Just amazing;I visited the Moscow Metro for a photo shooting. The decoration are just fabulous.  I got lost several times as the same station has a different name depending on the line you are travelling. Anyway a must experience while staying in Moscow.;5;September 13, 2018
Highlight of Moscow;Seen so much on TV but in actual life Fantastic! Our guide took us to the most outstanding halls near the centre and I could have spent longer. A must see when visiting Moscow!;5;September 13, 2018
A Bit of Class;Went down onto Moscow’s Metro and what an excellent experience that was, it was a late afternoon visit almost rush hour. It’s truly beautiful, bronze statues and sculptures adorned the stations that we went to and the art nouveau frames around pictures and fancy tiling and gorgeous chandeliers were to be seen everywhere. Well with a visit if you’re in Moscow. It honestly puts the London Underground to shame really. Everywhere is spotlessly clean and not a hint of litter anywhere, and everything runs on time.;5;September 13, 2018
Majestic;It's a treat to just travel in the metro. The trains are notjing special but each station is grand. Just loved the ornamentation. One station has bronze (?) sculptures of simple folks. The tradition is for travellers to touch these sculptures almost like a prayer. In a way very significant as the world stopped Hitler in this country and by these simple Russian pheasants who died in millions. It's quite a touching ritual;5;September 12, 2018
Moscow metro tour without guide;I did this by myself with help from fellow TA members reviews. This was very easy, most stations are on line 5 , couple on red Line and one on green line. This indeed is a must do thing in Moscow. They are amazing , should be in museums!;5;September 12, 2018
Ancient art work;Very rare to see the valuable art work in a Metro station...Mosaic work studded with precious stones;5;September 12, 2018
Beautiful and nice;It´s easy and nice to travel by the Moscow metro, but avoid rush hours. The price was acceptable, I felt safe. Take some time to stop by the stations and take a look at them. All different and very beautiful.;5;September 12, 2018
Beautiful city spot;Moscow Metro stations are one of a kind and build in a such majestic way that you think that this is not even a metro station, but a royal palace or something. Recommended and a must to see!;5;September 12, 2018
Efficient and interesting;The best way of getting around Moscow other than on foot (if feasible).  It is cheap and efficient and some of the stations are museums in themselves.  Try Mayakovskaya and Belarusskaya stations in particular.;4;September 12, 2018
Moskovskaya Merto station to Sheremetyevo Airport.Highly Recommendedded;Spent 5 days perfect vacation in St. Petersburg. arrived by flight to Vnukovo Airport & took the Aeroexpress train to central Moscow Metro station. I have taken just 2 stations(50 Rubles) on the brown color line to Moskovskaya station. There, was located the Aeroexpress train(outside -100mt to the left side) to Sheremetyevo Airport departure flights.The metro stations have very good outstanding signs in Eng, leading you to your destination. Clean perfectly, well decorated like its a museum.Highly Recommended!!!!!Tsafrir- Tour Guide from Israel.;5;September 11, 2018
Is there such a thing...;But there is...Can't remember which stations are but if we had the time we will explore each station;5;September 11, 2018
Wonderful;The Moscow metro is a beatuiful way to travel. The stations are amazing, it is quick and easy. Get a trojka card that suits your needs and travel all over Moscow. Also, notice how there are no ads or commercials anywhere on the Moscow metro;5;September 10, 2018
A must;Booking a tour is the easiest way to see the metro but you could map it out yourself. There is an excellent pamphlet on the tube. One ticket gets you underground for as long as you need... until you surface. The tellers understand lack of Russian, some speak English but there are also ticket vending machines  in all the tubes. Heavy security presence is obvious and the escalators are monitored.;5;September 10, 2018
Take the trip;Go to Urban Adventures and have Anna as your guide. Her knowledge and deep respect for Russian history bring the tour alive.;5;September 9, 2018
Old, artistically decorated yet efficient;Went on a guided tour to the Metro n Underground. Read a lot about these n not disappointed. Good experience;5;September 9, 2018
Interesting Experience;We had an odd tour that took us here. The architecture of the Russian subway is beautiful (cool murals), efficient, and has large steps. Would recommend for transportation!;5;September 9, 2018
Tour of the Metro;The artistry and craftsmanship dedicated to Metro stops in the Moscow area is outstanding. What a treat to see these unique features underground. I am so glad that my trip to Moscow included a tour of the Metro.;5;September 9, 2018
A must see when in Moscow;We booked a 2.5 hour private tour with ‘walkswithfolks’.  As the metro is noisy and crowded I was very glad we hadn’t been part of a large group.  Natalia met us at our hotel, dropped us back,  and was an excellent guide with lots of information and tales making it very interesting.  It really is amazing and worth this longer tour as we were able to see 10 stations, some extremely elaborate.  Thoroughly enjoyable.;5;September 9, 2018
Impressed with the metro in Moscow;Easy to use with signs in English, spotlessly clean and so cheap! Some of the stations are like museums - lonely planet guide has a good description of a self guided tour;5;September 8, 2018
Urban transportation perfected!;Earlier in my career, I was part of the team that built the Metro in Washington, DC and its suburbs.  Today, due to financial issues, the stations and service are nothing like that in Moscow.  Service is efficient and frequent; trains and stations are clean and very beautiful.  Latin alphabet is evident everywhere, so even a Western tourist can navigate the system.  Riders are polite, not pushy as in NYC or elsewhere.  Lots of police presence, so very safe from street crime.  I just wished we had more time to visit more stations: they are that beautiful.;5;September 7, 2018
WOW;Went there as part of a tour and was just blown away.  Each station we visited was like a small museum from stained glass, to statues, to mosaics. One thing that struck everyone in the group was how clean the metro stations were - no litter or graffiti. Our guide mentioned that if you are caught littering or painting graffiti, you are sent to Siberia for 6 months in the winter - I think she was kidding, I think.;5;September 7, 2018
Special - amazing;There is no other metro with history and this feeling what you see here in Moscow. Half of the all stations are just almost unbeliavable that they were built for public transport in old Russia.;5;September 6, 2018
fantastic Moscow metro station;Each metro stations are different. It's really worth to visit atleast 7-8   (best station available on net). I had visited 10 station, it took 3 hours to see. Its absolutely wonderful to see all these station. If you not visited these station when you visit Moscow, you are missing Real Moscow. Highly recommended....;5;September 6, 2018
On time...Great Architecture.!!!;I used Moscow metro system when I was there for the World Cup and it covers all corners the this megapolis city. The metro stations are amazing very nice some of them you would think they are 5 star hotel lobbies.I also did Moscow Metro tour offered by MoscowFree Tour company don't miss this out. You will learn a lot about Moscow metro.;5;September 5, 2018
Most impressive metro in the world;Grand chandeliers, very wide platforms and walkways, intricate mosaics and artwork. What more could you ask for from a metro?;4;September 5, 2018
Like a museum;First day for going to nikoline circus we had to use metro . I can say we shocked with that much population there so busy and crowded . I never have been in crowded metro stations like that because i don’t have japan metro station experience ! Moscow has most crowded metro stations in the world after japan. You can see different art works in every station just in one you can see ceramic arts, in another one huge statues , and in other station nice paintings..... for me it was like museum and metro was so fast and best way to transport in moscow ( cheapest and fastest one). Most beautiful stations are in grown color line that is like a circle in city you can drop off in every station you like.;5;September 4, 2018
Beautiful stations;Convenient, reliable and affordable. It is the best way to move around Moscow. To this add the fact that it is (probably) the most beautiful underground in the world. Some stations will just amaze you. Skip the rush ours if you just want to visit and experience it.;5;September 4, 2018
Very easy and inexpensive way to visit;We were here with 3 people, 2 of them above 60. As you take the metro in between it is not exhausting at all and require almost zero fitness. It is not a bad idea to study the history behind stations upfront. My suggestions are: Komsomolskaya, Prospekt Mira, Belorusskaya, Mayakovskaya, Teatralnaya, Ploshchad Revolyutsii, Kievskaya. Park Pobedy(main purpose is to see the deepest metro of the world and it's escalators). You will need to take 3 different lines to do this;5;September 4, 2018
As beautiful as confusing;Some of the metro stations in Moscow are amazing museums and, at same time, the right place for a foreigner to get lost. At least before the football world cup no signs in English would give you a thrilling sensation of no longer being able to read. It's quite an experience.;3;September 4, 2018
Incredible;The trains move +/-11 million travelers a day, in and out of terminals often decorated with some of the best Russian, museum, heritage, quality art. Ceilings and walls can be found covered with either mosaics or paintings, while other terminals have grand bronze sculptures. Live chamber music serves to calm the hustle and bustle.Consider spending 3 hours with a private guide to learn, and to see 8-10 of their best stations. Best to go either early in the morning, or mid afternoon. Trains run every 2 minutes, and you’ll want to avoid rush hours.;5;September 3, 2018
Fun Way to Travel;We loved the Metro. The underground areas were beautifully decorated and bronze statues were everywhere. If you rubbed the nose of a statue of a dog, you were supposed to have good luck, so we searched for the statue and rubbed the nose. We didn't have bad luck, so it must have worked.;5;September 3, 2018
Some of the World’s Most Beautiful Stations;The Moscow Metro is clean, efficient, and seemingly as safe as any other subway system in one of the world’s largest cities. However, from a tourist’s perspective, this metro system is special for its spectacularly ornate Soviet-era underground stations. Many visitors will take tours to highlight the unique designs of some of the system’s oldest stations. I would recommend that art and architecture enthusiasts visit Mayakovskaya, Belorusskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Prospekt Mira, and Komsomolskaya stations. For a few rubles, and a bit of a ride, one can enjoy museum-quality social realism of the USSR at a number of historic stops.;5;September 3, 2018
Moscow Metro;There is no subway system like the Moscow Metro. It is full of artwork and statues. The tunnels and cars are clean and it is easy to ride. At the lowest point, it is 275 feet below surface.;5;September 3, 2018
Must do tour;« The art for the people » phrase is behind one of the largest underground museums in the world. You can admire art nouveau, art deco, baroque or classic architecture while waiting for the next metro. Better be guided to appreciate the history behind the stations.;5;September 3, 2018
Lot's of confusion but nice Arquitecture;Moscow subway is very confusing, you need a map with the names of the stations in both alphabets. The directions are poor but at the end you find your way. Not necessary to say that some stations are incredible...;3;September 2, 2018
Metro Station with Magnificent View;Where else you will go to Moscow. Off Course at Metro Stations as you can hop in Hop off of every station they have. You can see paintings, sculpture and many more with history. And very cheap price;5;September 2, 2018
The subway stations are must-sees;If you are in Moscow (or as they call it Mockba) the subway is not only a very easy way of travelling; the stations are all worthwhile seeing. One is more impressive than the other, but that is partly also a matter of taste.;5;September 2, 2018
Old Coaches but Beautiful Metro Stations;Very old metro cars except for the new circular metro. But very efficiently run. Great way to move around. TROIKA card which can be used for bus travel too would be helpful. Yandex metro App is useful to navigate the complex metro routes and find the routes to be taken. Still one would get confused. Metro stations are beautiful. Some escalators are so deep and can be scary.;4;September 2, 2018
Moscow Has The Best Metro Stations;A real experience, a mix of transport services with architecture, culture & history. You will sure enjoy the ride !!!;5;August 31, 2018
Clean and super efficient;The metro in Moscow is famous for being beautiful. And it is. But mostly, I I'm surprised about the clockwork efficiency and cleanliness. Buy the 20 station pass. You can share it with your crew and it will save you money. God bless Moscow.;5;August 31, 2018
built as palaces for the poor;communist Russia under Stalin takes the underground meaning to a new level. all stations are unique by different architects. many are situated almost 100mts underground. its hard to believe that the first line was completed in a year in 1938.take a guided tour;5;August 31, 2018
Simply Wonderful;It's simply beautiful. While Kievskaya, Taganskaya, Ploushad Revolutsi are some of the must-see stations, I myself also find newer stations, such as Slaviansky Boulevar, quite mesmerizing. I think of Pan's Labrinyth somehow, every time I pass by this particular station.;5;August 31, 2018
Awesome;Very nice arcitecture.  Shows that they have spent a lot of time and artts to built these matro stations.  Certainly landmarks of Moscow.;4;August 31, 2018
Amazing;The stations are amazing, just beautiful, it is fabulous that these have been preserved. They are worth the visit on a noisy metro train however the metro system is efficient.;5;August 31, 2018
Amazing!!;This is an amazing must see in Moscow!! Wow!  The architecture and art contained within are like a museum!  You can spend hours admiring all the beauty.  Do not miss!;5;August 30, 2018
Unbelieveable must see!;If in Moscow, don't leave without making the loop of these incredibly beautiful stations. It's so easy to do and inexpensive - it truly is mind-boggling to see these Art Deco stations.;5;August 30, 2018
The Best;the metro has free wifi, it is very organizes making it hard to get lost, it cost 55 rub, per ride but you can transfer between metro stations as much as possible for free. Beautiful and clean. The metro run every 90seconds so you are never left waiting.;5;August 30, 2018
Amazing;Like you walk in a small museum Has a flavor of communist time Drawings and statues in the stations Sooooo deep underground that you may spend fee minutes 3 for examples to reach down Recommend to have someone to take you for this amazing tour St pete metro was more deep than in Moscow;5;August 30, 2018
Taste of paste;Several beautiful stations and some very interesting ones with decorations of the communist past. Extremely good system reaching all parts of the city.;5;August 29, 2018
There Subway is better than 90% of all museums;I was there in July and it was quite hot outside. It was very refreshing down in the subway being noticeably cooler and with a constant breeze. I was expecting it to be nice given what I have researched, but it was better than I expected. I love the older "soviet" era stuff and this did not let me down.;5;August 29, 2018
Architectural masterpiece;Some of the stations make you wonder whether you are in a museum or just in the underground transport system: visit stations like Mayakovskaya, Komsomolskaya on the circle line, Trubnaya and Park Pobedy. In general, the system is easy to navigate since they've introduced signage in English language. Like all transport systems, it can get busy and sticky, so as a tourist avoid peak times to enjoy the experience. Recently tablet-like screens have been introduced in every carriage. These can be used to assist in navigating the city as well as will give you up to date weather forecast, breaking news etc. Free wifi is also available in every carriage, however it can take some time to connect to it. There's still a mix of newer and older trains, however I personally prefer the old train experience - makes you feel like you're a part of soviet extravaganza;4;August 29, 2018
Amazing;Most beautiful metro I've ever visited! It's a free museum with loads of Soviet art. A must see while visiting Moscow;5;August 29, 2018
Architectural wonder;Usually the metro is a means to getting from A to B the fastest way possible.  The Metro stations in Moscow are a sight to see, with lovely chandeliers, domed ceilings, statues.  Even if you do not brave riding the metro, I recommend going into a station to see how beautiful they are.;5;August 28, 2018
Robbery at metro;It was terrible. Full of thief. This place doesn’t have any security for tourists at all. 4,000 USD of our money was taken by force. 5 men took our money by force and after we informed this rubbery to police they told us it is very regular in Metro and you should pay attention to your belongings. I will never ever travel to russia again very bad country with very very unkind people.;1;August 28, 2018
Go off at every station;All stations offer a fantastic experience. Get off at all of them if you have the time, some true pieces of art.;5;August 28, 2018
2nd best metro in the world;Only Tokyo metro is better but Moscow metro is much more beautiful with stunning art work. Tickets are cheap too.;5;August 28, 2018
Beautiful Heritage Metro. A Unique feeling.;Moscow metro needs to be seen to believe it. It's unlike the new swanky metros we see in other parts of the world. This one is a piece of history & legacy. Each train still carries the old look and feel yet is super efficient & punctual. The stations are glimpses into the past glory & appreciation of art. It's very user friendly, labels are in english as well. very economical as it charges just once when you enter. There are no incremental charges in terms of distance traveled. A flat rate. Troika card is the best option for tourists.;5;August 28, 2018
It’s like to be in a museum.;The metro of Moscow is one of the most beautiful in the world. Each station has its own history and design! Absolutely amazing;5;August 27, 2018
Must see;Unimaginable!I strongly advice to take the Metro Tour. Very interesting.  Museum hidden under the ground.;5;August 27, 2018
Communists extravaganza;Eye opening decor for the enjoyment of the common man turns into a major tourist attraction. Very decorative but extremely noisy and draughty subways. The metro stations give an interesting insight into the political mindset of the times. Well worth the time and effort but go out of peak times if there is such a thing.;4;August 27, 2018
Pleasantly surprised;Amazingly clean, organized and modern! Compared to the subway in New York and other places - a true heaven.;5;August 27, 2018
Beautiful!;I've seen a lot undergrounds of the world, and Moscow metro is still the most beautiful of them all. The only one to have chandeliers and walls with painted pictures on almost every station in the center!;5;August 27, 2018
Easy and convenient;What I had assumed to be the most chaotic thing ever was actually seemless, easy to use even for someone who you could argue, as an australian, doesnt speak english, for English speaking people. Trains were on time and clean, not that packed even during the world cup madness which was a dream and they got you to most parts of the city real easy.;5;August 27, 2018
Tube station or stately home;The underground stations in Moscow are decorated like stately homes. Some tell stories, such as the progress of aircraft. Each is different featuring stain glass in one, chandeliers in another, painted ceilings, gold leaf and so much more. A definite must see in Moscow.;5;August 27, 2018
Soviet efficiency and beauty;Its great to see the metro system, it shows that despite communism as a failed system it did produce one of the most efficient metro systems which is also quite pleasant to visit as a lot went into producing beautiful metro stations. To this day it remains great to see and experience.;5;August 27, 2018
The most beautiful metro in the world;Take your camera. This is a unique experience. I have never seen a metro with more chandeliers and amazing art.  Even the trains were decorated beautifully. The good thing is they have written the station names in roman and Cyrillic alphabet so finding your way around is much easier even if you don’t speak Russian.;5;August 27, 2018
Beyond categories;I spent years taking the tube in London, Paris, NYC and Washington DC. Nevertheless, the is no equivalent to Moscow metro: A great piece of art in the most central stations, which can be visited as if it was a museum mostly depicting the glorious years of USSR. Moreover, the high number of trains let you wait for no more than 90 seconds usually, even late at night. Moscow tube is particularly safe bearing in mind the multiple police staff. Cleanliness is beyond expectations for such public place, showing that residents do care anout “their tube”. An example among others of what the “West” could learn from Russia.;5;August 27, 2018
Amazing metro network.;In my view, Moscow metro is one the best in the world. As the city is so huge, without such an extensive metro network, it is nearly impossible to reach any places quickly. Not just that all metro stations are very wide, clean, and well-organised, in fact, many of them beautifully decorated. Because of the deep underground and relatively high speed of the metro, it can be a bit noisy, but this is not unique to Moscow.I also love the new Moscow Central circle (MCC) line, which is largely overground, seems to take about 1.5 hours to make the full circle. The great thing about MCC is that it has airco. My toddler son loved having mid-day nap on this line.;5;August 27, 2018
Each branch has it's own flavour;This is how it should be done Clean, pristine and do easy to travel.Plus the pride of the Muscovites is evident. Go check out each branch for its unique decor.;5;August 27, 2018
The best Metro system in the world!;It is not only efficient public transport, it is an architectural monument, the oldest stations are amazing;5;August 27, 2018
Beautiful;Each of the metro stations are different and gorgeous... A museum in itself. Even though we don't know Russian finding our way around the metro was easy. The connectivity planning of the metro was truly impressive.;5;August 27, 2018
A must see;We travelled to several stations and marvelled at the decor. Built by Stalin in 1946 each station represents a different Russian state like Belarus or Ukraine and all materials come from that state. Revolution Square is particularly the Soviet era;5;August 27, 2018
Wow!;The Moscow metro is super easy to use with maps and announcements in Russian and English! The chandeliers are wonders and each station is unique. Clean. Not graffiti. And if you are a senior citizen you will be offered a seat by some one younger. Treat yourself and spend a few hours riding the various lines.;5;August 27, 2018
Fun and beautiful;The stations are beautiful and clean. You can go on the central brown line and hop off and on each station and view the beautiful marble and granite architecture. Each station has a theme. It is very east to navigate and the Russian people in Moscow are very courteous and helpful.;5;August 27, 2018
An absolute must!!!;If you went to Moscow and didn’t visit Moscow metro then consider that you didn’t see the most beautiful and hidden part of that beautiful city. You will feel like you are in museums on every single station. Definitely better to take a guide so he can explain to you about the stories of each station. I suggest you avoid pick hours and go between 10am to 4-5 pm or much later around 9-10 pm to avoid rush hours so you can make nice pictures. It’s the most beautiful metro I’ve ever seen in my life.;5;August 27, 2018
Better journey but a difficult location;Though there was nothing to complain about the metro and journey, total absence of English anywhere around, whether signs or persons, made the otherwise smooth journey difficult to pick up right trains.;5;August 26, 2018
Moscow  Metro;This was just amazing.  We rode on the Metro line and found that each station had such a different character.  Some had chandeleirs over the platforms.   Beautiful paintings, moasics.   A very worthwhile and enjoyable activity with trains running every 2 minutes.;5;August 26, 2018
Most Beautiful in the World;The Subway reaches over 200 miles and many locations feature fine art. The ridership is over a billion per year. Think of it. You can travel to work through an art museum! It was competed for use in the mid 1930’s and has been lengthened many times since. Much of the art glorifies the dreams of the Soviets but it is well worth seeing anyway. The cleanliness is impeccable. A must to see at least once!;5;August 25, 2018
Totally worth a trip...;Totally worth a trip...but be warned...I would only go with a guide...it is huge and to see the best parts you would want some assistance. We are from NY and feel comfortable in subways...but this out did our subway in every way...beautiful. Felt very safe with our guide.;5;August 25, 2018
Metro;The stations in Moscow was amazing i travelledA lot but the metro station in Moscow like palace With huge  najf plus very hight escalatorHowever the train is normal train ThanksHussien;5;August 25, 2018
Crowded!;The history and artwork are impressive. Being tossed about by the locals in an effort to see a station, uncomfortable to me..;3;August 25, 2018
Beautiful;The most beautiful metro in the world. It is very cheap to visit and also very helpful to use to visit other places in Moscow.;5;August 25, 2018
A Must See;The metro stations are spotless, and the trains are prompt. Each station is like a step back in time, if you can get someone to explain the history to you it is well worth it.;4;August 25, 2018
Open, spacious and very ornamental;As above - you can even arrange a 4 hour tour of many tube stations.The underground system is very clean and efficient.;5;August 24, 2018
Cheap transportation, beautiful stations, and rich in history!;32 rubles for a tour to many places(cheapest around the world! )There are paid tours that talk about the history and such, but you can also read online about alot of information!Good thing is once you are in, you can switch and change as many trains, and visit as many stations for that price, as long as you do not exit! Watch youtube vids to choose a few of your favourites to visit if you have limited time.55 rubles if u buy a 1 time entry card, and 50 rubles for a troika card which you load prepaid money and your entrance fare is then only 32, and 20 for a transfer if you exit and change a bus or go back into the metro.Below are some of my favourite station pics!;5;August 24, 2018
Safe and easy to use;Loved the Moscow Metro. Some beautiful buildings with picturesque interiors. Easy to use, despite the language alphabet differences!;5;August 24, 2018
WONDERFUL;I will start with the set-backs; one, primarily: people with disabilities will find it impossible to use the system. In addition, unless you can read a little bit of Russian you might find it hard to interchange from one line to the other. Other than that, it is undoubtedly an absolute work of art.The subway has been built during the Cold War as an efficient transport system, atomic shelter and, presumably, as underground network connecting the major government hubs in case of enemy attacks. Huge emergency doors made of lead and almost 10 inches thick are ready to isolate the underground which can host thousands of citizens and the perfect ventilation system makes sure that nobody chokes to death during the emergency (and you are in the world’s deepest subway system!)With twelve lines, a total length of 346,2 kilometers, 206 stations and still counting (78 new stations are expected to open by 2020 and the total length will increase by 160 additional kilometers), a train every 90 seconds in the worst cases, 7 million passengers per day and 99.6% of trains on time, Moscow Metro outranks any other subway system I have visited so far, including Paris, London, New York and Tokyo! Indeed, you can attach a Moscow city map to a wall, throw a dart blindfolded and in the worst scenario you landed not farther than 10 minutes on foot to the nearest subway station.With 46 stations being works of art this Metro station outsmarts any other and is definitely my favored.;5;August 24, 2018
Must visit and live in Moscow.;You have to visit the Moscow metro cause it is one of a kind. Of Stockholm’s metro is the biggest gallery then Moscow’s metro is the most historic and iconic one in the world. It’s full of history and feelings from the past and it drives you through soviet union’s landmarks. Don’t miss Kievskaya and park pobedy station.;5;August 23, 2018
MAGNIFICANT METRO;The Moscow Metro is very magnificant. As per our guide it was built by one of USSR's former Emperors and was helpful in the transportation activities of Moscovites and other people. Different lines have different themes in their respective stations. All metro stations and trains are very well maintained by the government. It was an experience when travelling in these underground metro trains. We enjoyed every moment.;5;August 23, 2018
Take a Tour;If you are in Moscow the metro is a must see stop.   It will not take you to places you want visit quickly and cheaply.  To better understand the history of the metro I would suggest a paid tour to learn the history of the metro and the significance of each station design and artwork.;5;August 23, 2018
Excellent;Fast and few passengeres (not crowded), easy to find the directions and destination, supportive guards.;5;August 22, 2018
Spotlessly Clean! Like touring a Museum;A tour of the Moscow Metro is comparable to touring a Museum! The floors shine! there is no litter in sight! The walls & ceilings are covered with artwork and all is clean!  How do they keep it so clean? You would think that the white would be blackened by brake dust.  They must clean every night!  No graffiti! The smell is as though fresh air is being pumped through.  Definitely not the urine smell of many of the world's subways. I wish we had had more time to visit additional stations.  We were on a tour that rushed us through around 5 samples.;5;August 22, 2018
Art Underground!;We had the chance to go through a few stations in St Petersburg but we found some of the stations in Moscow to be even more impressive. There was also some really good acoustics for the musicians playing.;5;August 21, 2018
Fast and cheap;Great way to travel fast and comfortable in Moscow.,There are many station near each of the attractions so its very important to those that want to see many places in a day.;5;August 21, 2018
Unbelievably picturesque metro! | tour recommended!;Whenever I told someone about going to Russia they made a strong point about the amazingly beautiful metro stations! And they were right! We chose to do a 2-hour underground tour and there is so much information to gain from it! (Apart from the fact that it gets really noise and hard to listen to the guide) there are so many historical connotations and artistry to them! Easy to get to places but there is more to these underground stations than that! They are museums!;5;August 21, 2018
An underground museum, must not miss;I loved going through this metro.  It is like nothing you can imagine.  Had a guide take us and showed us all the unusual things, sculptures, told us the stories about what we were seeing and how this metro was used during the past.  Don't miss this.;5;August 20, 2018
Unbelievably Beautiful!;I don't even know where to start. Your respect for Russian beauty, culture, and architecture shoots up by leaps and bounds the moment you set foot in any of the ornately decorated metro stations - and there are many of them. Almost all that I visited are beautiful, but some are like the grand halls of palaces with chandeliers, and statues, and art work. My suggestion would be to buy a one way ticket and get down at each station to admire the beauty. It's slightly dark, of course, because it's underground, and crowded too. But you get a couple of crowd free minutes when the train leaves the station. That's your cue to take as many photos as you want. They also have these never ending escalators and it's quite a ride. :)A must visit. And, satisfaction guaranteed.;5;August 20, 2018
The most majestic metro system;I've had the pleasure of travelling a number of different metro train systems around the world but Moscow's metro is something completely different.It's like walking into another era, totally majestic and grandiose. Only word of advice for the trains though is to carry earplugs with you as it is noisy to the point of being deafening. Protect your hearing, no matter what it is you're doing!Definitely the best way to travel around Moscow.;5;August 20, 2018
unique metro;Easy to find your way around, and easy to just loose track of time while admiring station. Each metro station is unique, different deco brings different era to light. I recommend, get 3 day valid metro card and travel from station to stations and explore. enjoy,;5;August 20, 2018
One of the cleanest metro station;This is one of the cleanest metro station we’ve ever seen or been on.It also has underground access to the other side of the streets. So there no walking on street corners to cross. You go underground  to cross - it’s way safer.;4;August 20, 2018
Most beautiful metro ever;I can’t even describe all the metro stations you have to see it to believe it. The art ,chandeliers and the inner facades are very impressive;5;August 20, 2018
Fantastic time on the metro;We are not train spotters or station geeks but loved hopping on and off around the metro network taking photos of all the amazing architecture. Super easy to use metro (easier and more efficient than London), but with the bonus of some stunning things to see. It is cheap to use as well - much easier than taxis - I would highly recommend this to any visitor to Moscow.;5;August 19, 2018
Inexpensive and well run;I traveled on the Metro two years ago and was pleasantly surprised this month, after the World Cup activities, to see lots of signs in English now. The Metro system as I experienced it was on time, trains ran often, were not overcrowded and the stations were clean. It's an inexpensive way to get around the city.;5;August 19, 2018
One of the best Subway systems in the World;If you are in Moscow, you need to take the Metro to get across this +20 Million habitants city. There 8 stations that are works of art, and cannot miss them. It is worth noting that the new trains are as good as the ones in SIngapore (but with conductors) and have English language also. The great majority of the trains are not bilingual, as well as the stations - but you can download the Metro app which is excellent and it is bilingual. The app tells you direction, how many stations you need go to your destination, etc. on top of the bilingual map. Best is to buy a multiple day ticket (credit cards accepted) if you you stay more than 2 days. The interval from the trains is one minute during the rush hour, and it makes you think how NY is 25 years behind in public transportation......;5;August 19, 2018
One of the most efficient Subway systems in the world;The Metro Stations called '' The Peoples' Palaces'' are worth exploring, even if one does not want to use the Metro.Currently there are 215 stations, no two look alike. Among the Moscow Attractions there is a list of the stations  one must see. There are now signs in English, so it is easy to go around all over the city. It is really cheap, a Twenty trip card costs less than USD 12;5;August 19, 2018
Very clean an beautiful;One has to go to the Metro in Moscow and experience it!  Unlike any other city that I am aware of.  Very clean and very beautiful.  And I thought very safe.;5;August 19, 2018
Definitely a "Must Visit";Various stations seen on this trip.  All are unique and some are more 'flashy' than others. Had a guide to take us around and visited several stops.  Subways are very deep since some were designed as fallout shelters.;5;August 19, 2018
Awesome;You need to experience it for sure. Language a major problem but worth a trip Any day. People are very disciplined and follow rules amazingly;5;August 19, 2018
Must Visit;I would encourage a visit for an hour or more with a guide to explain the meaning of the artwork. The most beautiful metro with statues and mosaics that are breathtaking. The station platforms resemble miniature palaces. The metro became a vehicle for Stalin’s State propaganda. Amazing history.;5;August 18, 2018
Stations are absolutely amazing.;Escalators are the steepest I have ever ridden on, but the elegance, art and cleanliness of the stations are amazing. A definite must see is a tour of the stations, which is very easy to do, and very inexpensive.;5;August 18, 2018
Simple and practical;Amazing how such a big city is connected with this metro. You must take a trip and go wherever you go!;5;August 18, 2018
To do!;Moscow metro should be on everyone's to do list when visiting Moscow. Gorgeous decor makes you feel like you are in a church waiting for a mass to start and not like you are just waiting for the transport ;);5;August 17, 2018
Really a great view on the walls of the metro station;We have traveled by the metro in different directions of the city and really enjoyed the experience. Tourist must try to travel by metro at least once. We also traveled by Mono rail and tram.;4;August 17, 2018
A surprisingly worthwhile experience!;Not only is the Moscow Metro absolutely immaculate, each beautiful white marble station is a mini-museum filled with sculptures and paintings. Super easy to navigate regardless of one's ability with the language and much more efficient. Natives were kind and helpful when I asked for directions or confirmation regarding stops.Traffic is Moscow is terrible and predictable so the metro offers a safe and cheap alternative to the taxis whose drivers often get lost because they are not from Moscow. Drivers will also attempt to charge excessive prices to the unwitting passenger (if you do end up in a taxi, negotiate!). Download the app Yandex Metro and Google translator and you are good to go!;5;August 16, 2018
Artwork;You will be very pleased when you see it. Each stop is a separate work of art. Both metro networks are quite extensive. I think it's the cheapest museum in moscow.;5;August 16, 2018
Red square is amazing;Went there with my friends for the World Cup and we took the tours there and there is so many beautiful things to do and place to go there and many restaurants around and prices are reasonable;5;August 16, 2018
fast, easy and beautiful;The Moscow metro is fast and I didn't wait long for the next one. So you do not need to run to catch the metro.It is easy and cheap to pay. If you travel more than tree times it is easier to buy a metro-card. I pointed out what I wanted and the lady at the desk understood.The stations are beautiful. Please visit the highligts. I found them by google 'beautiful metrostation'.;5;August 15, 2018
World class as metros go;Very clean and the Russians are so proud of the architectural decorations that occur at the different downtown stations  What impressed me the most was something I also encountered at the downtown mall, and that was the consideration and graciousness of those who had seats and offered them to very youg/old/etc. It is quite safe but there are a number of different train routes, so pre-plan this adventure!;4;August 15, 2018
Best organised metro ever;This way of transportation not only brings you from one place to another, it is als cheap and one must not forget that the most metro stations are so beautifully decorated!;5;August 15, 2018
Breathtaking;HANDS DOWN WINNER....Moscow's metro stations are the best in the world. I navigated the stations with the help of a tour guide. For starters the depth of the stations is crazy. In some stations it clocked 2 minutes for the elevator to reach the train lines. The bronze statues at all the stations are majestic and beautiful. The lighting (chandeliers) gives a feeling as if you are walking in a palace. The trains are always on time and all the stations are well connected. Using the Yandex metro app makes it easier to navigate even if one is not familiar with Russian. They have free wifi connectivity at the stations due to bad cellphone signal underground. There is also landline telephone a facility where you can ask for directions if you are lost.;5;August 15, 2018
This is the metro where you wonder if you are in a Museum because of the sculptures and paintings.  Don't miss it.;Specially the Metro station closest to the Red Square it is unbelievably beautiful, clean and easy to move in and out of.;5;August 14, 2018
Wonderful place. Something unique.;Wonderful place. Something unique. Try to see as more stations as possible... Not all look like in the postcards. Some are old and not very clean but most of it are unique and worth to be seen / visited.;5;August 14, 2018
Hidden treasure;Unbelievable hidden treasures down in the depths of Moscow. Hard to explain just how stunning some of the stations are. From bronze staues on every corner to ceilings of artwork. Find the time to take a look.;5;August 14, 2018
Most beautiful metro in the world;Moscow metro was built since 1930s and new lines are still being added. The old stations are unique and have marble statues, gold & glass mosaics and staines glass. They can be compared to a fine arts museum and definitely worth a visit!;5;August 14, 2018
The hype is justified;For subway fans, the Moscow Metro has an iconic reputation and for good reason.  It runs every minute and is clean and comfortable.  The statuary and art work, not to mention the chandeliers, in some of the stations is worthy of a museum.  You don't have to be a Communist to enjoy a visit.;5;August 14, 2018
Day trip;Impressed. Never had to wait more than 30secs if just missed a train. All trains and deep escalators working the whole time I was there. Only 55 roubles one way to anywhere/anyline as long as you don't exit. Much unlike the SMRT.;4;August 14, 2018
Impressive Metro Stations;Purchased one ticket to enter the Metro and rode the various trains to multiple stations to visit the beautiful Metro stations of Moscow.  Many stations were built in the mid 1930's and are so ornate it is hard to believe that you are in a city Metro.All of the stations are extremely clean and can be accessed by purchasing one ticket and switching stations and visiting all of the Moscow Metro lines.  Marble and huge chandeliers with large mosaics make many of the stations a must see.  Large pieces of art cover the walls allowing one to view the history of the city.  Quite impressive.;4;August 14, 2018
Palace of the People;Choose carefully which metro stop to visit because not all of them are worth it but they indeed do look like little palace for people !;4;August 14, 2018
A MUST;We went by night when it was less busy. For about an Aussie dollar you can go on metro trains from station to station with no additional cost unless you go out on the street. Its like walking through a palace of art work: stained glass, mosaics, bronze statues. Really beautiful and a must do thing for a visit to Moscow.;5;August 14, 2018
Oldest metro in world;Moscow metro is to be known one of the oldest metro in world. Metro stations remind us about old Soviet time.;5;August 13, 2018
World Cup, July 2018;The Moscow was Fast, efficient and very cheap. During the World Cup this was the Best way to go to the Stadiums and back to your Hotel. In Addition I was able to see some the Famous Train Stations.  I did Not know this until I arrived. So do a Google Search and you see a complete list the Famous Stations;4;August 13, 2018
A place to visit;One of the beautiful metro stations in the world Every station is offering an exceptional view and the decoration is amazing,;5;August 13, 2018
Unbelievable;Another one of the great sights of Moscow. You have to see it to belieev it! The description "cathedrales of the people" is more than accurate. Visit as many as time allows!;5;August 13, 2018
Mesmerizing;This is one of the highlights of Moscow and defnitely a must see.  I was fasinated by all the frescoes and the beauty.;5;August 13, 2018
Must not leave Moscow without visiting the Metro;The underground stations on the Metro are well known but you need to see them for yourself. The Metro network is extensive so a little planning is necessary to know the stations to visit and which trains will take you there. Try to avoid peak periods because the Metro is busy all the time. One ticket allows you to visit as many stations as you wish but once you exit the network, you need to buy another ticket to reenter. Stations and trains are clean and there is no graffiti - a good example which some other cities could follow. Put some time aside to see some of the unique stations. Add a bit of time to your sightseeing so you can use the Metro to get between some of the attractions you would like to visit.;4;August 12, 2018
Must visit;As long as I can remember I've heard of, and seen pictures of, the Moscow metro stations.  I can say that they did not disappoint.  I visited five stations and every one of them was very ornate and well-worth the visit.  One of the guidebooks I looked at before my trip had an itinerary for a tour of the subway.  Highly recommended.Thanks for reading.  I’ll appreciate a thumbs up below if you’ve found this helpful.;5;August 12, 2018
Best beautiful metro;Design, architecturre is awesome! Best in the world. But metro is very old noisy, you can not hear the announcement. and sometimes no latin alphabet. So better learn the russian alphabet and metro lines. Also inside of the metro has different concepts about art, poem, literature.. Very good!;5;August 12, 2018
A Must do in Moscow;Moscow Metro is a must do!Has go to be the worlds most beautiful underground - the art work, architecture, hallways are wow !One would never say u are "under ground"Trains are quick, efficient and fun to ride inAnd not too difficult to figure out and use on your own if required.;5;August 12, 2018
Must see and do in Moscow;We took a private guided tour of the Metro and the 3 of us zipped around from station to station.  Each one was different and beautiful in its own fashion.  Trains came about every 40 seconds, so we were able to cover a lot of stops with someone who knew their way around.  We did this on a Sunday and the only crowds were around the art in the stations!;5;August 12, 2018
Metro during World Cup;The Moscow Metro was very convenient during the World Cup in July. Stations were clean, some were beautiful. Fare was reasonable.;4;August 12, 2018
Now with announcements in English;The Moscow Metro is a work of art! And worth a visit to have a look at some of its art-deco stations, beautifully decorated. It's also a great form of transport, particularly with at peak times often only seconds between trains. The run up to Russia 2018 World Soccer Championship has led to more explanations in Russian AND also in English. These days stations are indicated on the map in Russian and English. On the trains announcements are now in both languages. And they are very clear. The Moscow Metro is now even more of a transport gem to use - particularlyy with an electronic Troika card which lets you use buses and trams as well as the metro.;5;August 12, 2018
Moscow metro dazzling display of art;We visited Moscow metro in July 2018 while being on a tour of Moscow. The first time we entered metro it was surprising to see its depth. We were dazzled by what we saw inside as well. The metro station had marble wall with beautiful lighting features, sculptures and wall decorations from Russian history. The metro was spotlessly clean. Every stop had on a wall a list of all the stops going in certain direction which made it easy to find wanted direction and line number. As we used metro frequently a metro card with 10 rides was good option. We combined metro exploration with visiting other attractions and saved on rides this way, as every time you re-enter metro, card reader registers one ride less.   My favourite metro stop is well known Komsomolskaya station ( red line 5 stops from Red Square) that resembles a concert hall, however every station has something interesting to offer differing in themes and art technique ( mosaic, statues, paintings, wall features etc). One of the stations, Rimskaya (light green line) has pillars with baby statues of Romulus and Remus.  When using the metro, it is good to have a map with all coloured coded lines. Brown line is circular and connects with other lines. Most stops would have at least two-three lines intersecting. The Moscow metro is unique for its artistic style and worth visiting.;5;August 12, 2018
Of Course !;Don’t miss it !The old subway stations, the ones were build during the Staline time specially, were created to be the Russian Citizens Palaces !At least the bolcheviks created amazing places !Specially on ligne 1 and on circular oneIt s stunning !;4;August 11, 2018
Amazing!;Take a guide along and every metro station will transcend you to a historical masterpiece. Each station is built with a certain aspect of history in mind, be it war time, peace time, culture, or international relations. Truly palaces built for the poor! :);5;August 11, 2018
Fantastic!;We were with a guide and amazingly this group of 30 managed to get on and off to visit 3 of the stations, back and forth - terrific.  Each station is different and a work of art! She must have known the best because they were amazing. Chandeliers, paintings of workers, bronze statues, tile work - just great! Must see...;5;August 11, 2018
Ther most amazing metro system I have seen;Buy a trip card and just travel around.  No need to book a tour.  Exceeded what I was expecting.Plenty of info online as well as to the 'best' stations;5;August 11, 2018
Must know which one to visit;The best time to visit the metro is on Sunday, when most people would be at home (thus avoiding the wrong crowd/traffic).  The List: Novoslobodskaya, Prospekt Mira, Komsomolskaya, Krasnye Vorora, Kuznetsiy Most, Pushinaya, Park Pobedy, Mayaorskaya, Novouznetskaya, Taganskaya, Avtozavodskaya, Arbatskaya, Kievskaya, Nagatinskaya, Varob'yery Gory, Sopotkinsaya.   (Tips: follow the line colours and get out from metro for a break, and continue with other metro line (according to colours)).;4;August 11, 2018
Comination Museum/Super-Efficient Public Transit!;Before coming to Moscow I had read about the history of the Metro (designed before WWII, served as a bomb shelter during the war and into the Cold War, featured different themes and artwork in its stations to commemorate events in Russian/Soviet history), so I was definitely excited to see it. It fully lived up to my expectations, and then some. We spent an afternoon exploring the subway; we started at Teatralnaya station near Red Square, took the green (#2) line out to Byeloruskaya, then circled clockwise on the brown (#5) line to Kievsky, then back on the Blue (#3) line to Ploschad Revolyutsii (again near Red Square), getting out at almost every station along the way. Not only are the stations visually interesting, as you can see from pictures, but the Metro system itself was one of the most efficient and well-organized I have ever used. Trains came every 2 minutes  on a weekend; I head from someone else that during the rush-hour it is more like every 45 seconds! The signs at the platforms were also very informative (provided you can read Cyrillic); they provide a complete list of every station coming up along the line, as well as lists of stations you can transfer to at each stop. Announcements for the stops in the cars are in Russian and English. Despite not speaking Russian, we were able to navigate the system very easily, although I would recommend carrying a subway map with you just in case. Also, it is sometimes easy to forget that this is still an active transit system, so I would suggest going at a time to avoid rush-hour crowds. We did see a few designated "selfie spots" for tourists like us to take pictures, but otherwise we were rushing to take in the sights before dodging the next train's commuters. Overall, a very unique experience which I would highly recommend to anyone with an interest in Soviet/Russian history, urban mass transit, or both.;5;August 10, 2018
Super clean and beautiful;Moscow subway always fascinated me.It is super clean, beautiful, and they all have WiFi underground.People are very polite and give their seats to one who needs it more;5;August 10, 2018
The underground exposition for free;Take your half day or late evening to explore the great underground museum-like stations. Each spot has its own architecture and even smell. Many tourists are shooting with their cameras so be quick as you would love to have your nice picture free from people as well.;5;August 10, 2018
Amazing stations;All the stations were built in 1930's , unimaginable stations with marble , granite , beautiful statues in marble and bronze , excellent paintings and huge chandeliers.Every 30sec there is a train . Well connected route.;5;August 10, 2018
Work of Art;Many stations are works of art. Exploring the stations is a tourist activity in and of itself! A cheap and easy must-do activity;5;August 9, 2018
Unlike any other metro anywhere else!!;We've traveled in subways in London, New York, Paris, Beijing, Shanghai, Hong Kong--but nothing can compare to Moscow's metro stations.  Fully worth at least a half day to get out and see the most beautiful stations (you can find them online).  If you don't leave the station you can travel around on one ticket since they aren't distance based.;5;August 9, 2018
Solo;Buy a cheap ticket and spend a couple of hours hopping on and off the Metro to look at the amazing stations it’s good fun and easy to do you can visit red Square and other tourist attractions as you surf the Metro you only pay if you exit the Metro and re-enter so if you want you could look at many stations for a few pounds;5;August 9, 2018
nice;big metro, and a lots of people, no place to get in, for a while you feel Russia is only moscow. i don't like it.;5;August 9, 2018
Amazing Metro;Historical and beautiful Metro Stations in Moscow are a must. You will not believe your eyes - there is gold, marble, brass and precious stones with chandeliers and Art Deco lights. Each Station has something special to offer.;5;August 9, 2018
Most beautiful and clean metro in the world!;Russians take pride in their metro, no wonder.  We stopped at a few stations, each is different, with different chandeliers, sculptures, mosaque, marbles, just unbelievable.  There are no trash cans in the metro, but did not see a single piece of trash, so clean.  Some escalators are very long like a few hundred meters long, goes fast too.  What a beautiful system underground!;5;August 9, 2018
Metro same as museum;Most of Moscow’s metro station same as museum. Its amazing and if you want to find your way you should follow the signs in the floor and on the wall. Im falling in love with Moscow’s metro.;5;August 8, 2018
Most Impressive Underground Line;Photos are not enough to show the beauty and impressiveness of Moscow Metro, traveller should see it closer to understand why every one says so.  Each station looks like a small museum with unique status, relieves and paintings. Also other amazing thing about the Metro is its well management, super quick trains always on time, and interval between trains is very short.  Another thing you can travel to all corners of the city via underground. Thus, I can say one of the best underground line of the world is located in Moscow.;5;August 8, 2018
Beautiful Moscow Metro;When visiting Moscow you need to use the metro. Every station is an experience. The statues are beautiful and most stations rather resembles a museum. Revolution square was one of my favourites. Seeing the Moscowvites touching the statues for good luck.;5;August 8, 2018
not a must;We saw the video that went wild in the media and decided to see it ourselves. It was a Sunday evening but it was still busy. We got of the subway at 4 stations ( paying only one price when you stayed in the subway.) It was no match to the video. Perhaps it was the lighting, or the people rushing by. For those interested in the history of the USSR, the paintings and sculptures could arouse excitement.;3;August 7, 2018
A work of art!;The metro stations are a work of art. When in Moscow, you can easily spend a few hours like I had done going fro station to station just to see how each one was designed. One notable station is Ploschad Revolyutsii. In this station you can find a statue of a dog, which locals say is good luck to rub its nose. You can easily find this dog by looking for the groups of tourists waiting to take photos. There are 4 of this same statue inside the station.;5;August 7, 2018
Impressive!;You'd be amazed to see a subway system this beautiful. I've travelled a lot and I had never seen the inside of a mass transit system so beautiful! This is a must if you're in Moscow!;5;August 7, 2018
Incredibly beautiful subway stations;Moscow has the most amazing metro stations I’ve ever seen. They are very artistic. Some feature various types of marble, others golden ornaments, others statues and one has incredibly beautiful stained glass windows.;5;August 7, 2018
Like a museum;If you want to see art then take the subway in moscow or St. Petersburg. From the very enteance you will think you are visiting a museum in Europe. Well inside the magnificent columns and the paintings and the huge cristal crowns hanging over you will take you to a time that doesn’t exist any more in Europe, clean and pure respect for the public property. You not see any garbage or drawing on the floors and walls. You see art ! Take the train and you get air conditioning and free wifi. Something is crowded because it is a 12 millon city but the trip will be guided in russian and English speaking monitors and speaker voice. What else do you want ? Ah ! Yes very beautiful woman are also comon passengers you will enjoy the view on. So take the train because car traffic is moscow is terrible.;5;August 7, 2018
A must see attraction in its own right;Travelling on the Metro is a must. It's cheap, immaculately clean, easy to use and in so many stations, has beautiful architecture. London underground will feel like a slum after this!;5;August 7, 2018
Quick, convenient and beautiful;Moscow Metro is one of the most beautiful in the world, most of the stations are a real masterpiece with paintings, sculptures, mosaics, spacious halls with airy feeling. It's also one of the cleanest metros I've ever seen. The only downside I know are the old, poorly ventilated trains and it can be really humid and hot in summer. So if you are interested in sightseeing inside the metro in summer, pick evening hours when it cools down.;4;August 7, 2018
Beautiful metro;Some of the stations are really beautiful and probably the most beautiful metro I've ever seen. So worth seeing some of the stops.;5;August 7, 2018
Best Metro in the world;I've never seen a metro that is so meticulously Organised and takes one to his destination in quick time. Well done!;5;August 6, 2018
Cleanest and most efficient subway system!;After having traveled inside the U.S. and in several European countries, I must say this is the cleanest, most efficient, and most beautiful subway system ANYWHERE.;5;August 6, 2018
The most beautiful metro on the planet;Let me start by saying that it is more appropriate to call it a museum. Yes, it's functional, of course, it's convenient, and definitely universal and far reaching, but first and foremost it's a cultural, art and historic pearl. Do yourself a favor, grab a guide book and visit all the stations highlighted there. You won't regret it after seeing the luxury, grandeur, and beauty of the most stations. And if you have time, try to see as many stations as you can. Expect to see granite, marble, bronze, brass, stain glass, crystal, original paintings and artwork that will blow your mind.And in top of its unparallel beauty Moscow Metro is the most efficient in the world getting you anywhere you need to go in the shortest amount of time.;5;August 6, 2018
Beautiful--Easy to navigate;The quickest, easiest way to get around Moscow.  Even trying to  navigate in the Cyrillic alphabet, you can figure out where you need to go.  And it is truly beautiful architecture.  I will definitely take the tour on my next visit.  It is that interesting, beautiful and utilitarian!;5;August 6, 2018
Beautiful.;No metro in the world like this. A beautiful work of art...every station is special.Staff are friendly too.;5;August 6, 2018
Lovely;Lovely designs for each and every metro line.The old lines are very interesting with chandeliers in the middle.The service was excellent and very organized specially that it was there during the world cup.;5;August 6, 2018
Nothing bad to say;Cheap, efficient, frequent, and beautiful.  One of the better metro systems I have ever ridden. Each station is unique and many are really special.  Don't expect a lot of accommodation for handicap accessibility though.;5;August 6, 2018
World cup 2018;Wow wow wow. Probably the best looking metro in the world. During the world cup metro was free for usage if you had FIFA pass and help was available everywhere;5;August 6, 2018
Dont miss visiting Moscow metro;Moscow metro is like a museum at least some stations. It worth's visiting it just for sightseeing. Considering when the metro was build, it makes it even more admirable. There are several reviews mentioning stations to visit. Except from the most famous Mayakovskaya  where the corridors look like a ball room, i would recommend not to miss the Novoslobodskaya station (not usually recommended) but was amazing with vitro in the corridors. Also visit Kiyevskaya and Ploshchad Revolyutsii. I was also amazed how clean is the metro everywhere.;5;August 6, 2018
Hard to believe this is a subway station!;This was about as far from the NYC subway as you can get!  Beautiful statues, artwork, stained glass and mosaics line the stations.  This history behind what was put into the stations and why was fascinating (under the rule of Stalin).  I recommend a tour - we went with Paul from Moscow 360 who was great.;5;August 6, 2018
Moscow Metro;Without doubt the most efficient way to travel in Moscow. Its very clean very cheap especially if you purchase the troika card on your 1st visit. 36 rubles per trip regardless of distance travelled which is approx 20 cents!!;5;August 6, 2018
Must see when in Moscow;Do you like fine art sculptures, mosaics and music? Or architecture as well? The Moscow metro is for you. You will not be disappointed.;5;August 5, 2018
Moscow Metro;I loved and the people work in the metro are helpful and freindly.The application for metro is very helpful.;5;August 5, 2018
Wow;Went on a tour of the metro .it was so clean big and interesting, we stopped at 4 stations to look at all very different themes went with guide .don't know if as easy on your own If do just go round in circle;5;August 5, 2018
Well worth a look;The stations are works of art but the train system is amazing - trains every 45sec-2mins max. No need to run for a train as there will always be another one very soon.;5;August 5, 2018
World cup;The metro was very clean and easy to use. We found it very safe at night. Best to grab a map and go for it.;5;August 5, 2018
Wow;The metro of moscow is totally wow.who wld imagine a dull drab below the ground to be such a marvellous place.its really below the ground, the escalator takes one 50 metres down, phew.But then the most spectacular sight to behold.pl everybody must visit.actually i am totally in love with Moscow;5;August 5, 2018
Unbelievable;It is truly described as an underground museum! When you enter Moscow’s metro station, you will be amazed. I have never imagined seeing such things. Indeed it is unique around the world. Each station has its own decoration and theme, yet all are beautiful. You just need to go there and see by yourself;5;August 4, 2018
Must see;Each station is a work of art with its own theme. Worth making.several stops to see them all. So clean it's unbelievable;5;August 4, 2018
Quite Simply Stunning;I was absolutely floored by how clean the metro stations are, they don`t even have rubbish bins and there isn`t any rubbish or graffiti, the mosaics are wonderful and the history.;5;August 4, 2018
Beautiful Metro Stations;The Moscow Metro stations are unique in their own way. We started at the Kievskaya station and had six stops until we reached the station that serves the Red Square. The stations are really beautiful and worth the drop off every station.;5;August 4, 2018
Moat beautiful metro stations in the world;The metro stations in Moscow are a piece of art. Even if you are not interested in taking the subway, it is worth the visit. It was especially amazing during worldcup with the crowds cheering for their teams on their way to the 2 stadiums.;5;August 3, 2018
Beautiful subway?;Who would think of visiting the underground rail just to see the stations? Why can the Russians maintain age old iconic architecture and art in a busy metro setting for many years, and not have idiots spray painting graffiti on it. I’m so glad we were able to tour several stations before they are ruined by vandals. Besides the stunning terminals, the metro system is very efficient. We. Rode out to the southern outskirts of Moscow. The stations outside of downtown don’t share the beauty, but we found them all to be clean, and also free of graffiti.;5;August 3, 2018
Pittoresque;Great architecture, deep, deeeeeeep, old but very modern at the same time, one of the best metro systems in the world which has access to almost all the parts of the city.;5;August 2, 2018
A must visit!!;How a metro station can be designed like this, you will find in Moscow metro!! supper decoration and each of the station is designed with history. well decorated, neat and clean and you feel very comfortable in each of the station. Just one think, they should include English sign!!;5;August 2, 2018
A must do experience;Can be crazy and intimidating, so ask locally which time might be more quiet if you're just doing a tourist trip. Each station has its own theme and is beautifully decorated.If you can buy a tour, it's worth it, as the guide can give you the history and stats of the station as you move through them.;5;August 1, 2018
A must in Moscow!;Going to Moscow without using the metro, is unthinkable. This is the most impressing metro in the world and remmeber to use your time in the tations and don't just hurry trough.;5;August 1, 2018
The best way to get around the sights of Moscow;Get a Troika pass and use the metro to see the sights of Moscow. Changing stations is a delight with many beautifully designed station interiors. Trains are every 3 minutes. Announcements in English. Easy to navigate and great value.;5;July 31, 2018
Art in the metro;The Moscow Metro was amazing. Easy to navigate; extremely efficient; beautiful art work. Wish the DC Metro was half as good!;5;July 31, 2018
Not that hard;If you’ve mastered the Metro in Paris, or the subways of Tokyo, or NYC, 2 etc...this place is just the same .. magnificent artwork on the circle line... spend some time on that...every station is no more than 2 mins away from each other and every train is about 2Mins apart. Aside from the names.. (most in English and Russian, but not quite all) .. being hard to pronounce, and hence remember.. you just need a map and a magnifying glass to read it.. the place is very very safe. I have visited many of the worlds largest cities, the courtesy displayed by the Russians to offer seats to everyone, to move so couples can sit together.. was the best, well done. no English was spoken and it was not needed, they just do it.;5;July 31, 2018
A Moscow highlight, unique in the world;The Moscow Metro is unique in the world. Let me suggest some ways to visit and experience it:(1) You do not need a tour. Plus, it will slow you down. You want the experience of a resident in navigating the system, and of a tourist in getting off and marveling at unique stations.(2) Do your informational reading in advance. Ask residents about their favorite stations. Identify the stations to stop at on a metro map and organize your route. (3) Start riding. Experience the trains and the stations. Besides the station designs/architecture, pay attention to the various train designs, from walk-through cars to older boxy cars. Some have mini-TVs. (4) Watch the residents board. They know exactly where to stand and which cars to enter. They will let a train go by if it is not to their liking.(5) Pause at special stations. Once the rush passes, take your best photos of relatively uncluttered stations. (6) If you live in a city that has a metro system, compare details such as onboard announcements, signs, frequency, escalator speed, and courtesy to others regarding seats (mothers with children get special consideration).(7) Take notes so you can recall all the interesting details.Break your metro exploration with local-color stops. Here's an interesting one: Above Tverskaya station is Moscow's first McDonald's, dating from the early 1990s, when McD was considered upscale Western and the line on Sunday afternoons was sometimes a half-block long.As you travel in Russia, you will find metro systems in many cities. Each is different and interesting in its own way and in contrast.;5;July 31, 2018
Excellent;Really cheap, really clean and really safe, the metro is the best way to make your way around Moscow and the added bonus is that the stations are all works of art, you'll find yourself taking photos at every stop. All signs are easy to follow and announcements are made in English as well as Russian, we never got lost once in the week we constantly used the system.;5;July 31, 2018
Use an App to navigate the subway;Visited a number of subway stations and yes they are well done. The fun part was trying to find our way with the metro system. The metro system map was hard to read as it was in small writing. Russian names do not translate into English. A gentleman stop and helped us and advised us to use a metro app to navigate the Moscow metro.;4;July 30, 2018
How great is Russia;It never even occurred to me that one day I will be writing a review about a metro !!! But Russia is the exception, I hesitated in the beginning of using the metro but following a bad experience I thought to give it a try , and it was just amazing, I don’t think with all my travel I ever saw such a metro as some stations were really artistic and it represented Russia with all its glory , beautiful stations with chandeliers and paintings,, not something commonly seen in a metro station but maybe in museums . I’ve been also to the newest station as  I was visiting Avila park mall,, the station was built in a modern way yet it was also equally beautiful and very well built and designed . The other thing is that the network is very reliable and affordable. All stations I’ve been in were very very clean and very very safe even around midnight , there was a constant presence of police officers, guards and station workers. Honestly go great Russia you deserve it all.;5;July 30, 2018
Special day in Moscow metro;It's not just a metro station it's a museum by itself , I was amazed at what you saw, you could spend a whole day and you see the beauty of metro stations in Moscow;5;July 30, 2018
So cheap to travel;The underground stations are very picturesque and we found it safe to travel at night.  Very cheap and efficient metro system.;5;July 30, 2018
Moscow Metro;What a wonderful underground system - and so cheap - although it's not hard to get lost, because everything is (obviously) in Cyrillic lettering.  What wonderful marble, statues, paintings, chandeliers - utterly amazing!  We had a bit of a journey on the trains - that was amazing too - thankfully we were with our two tour guides, so they made sure we got off at the right stop!;5;July 30, 2018
Moscow Metro is an a journey through history and art itself;The metro stations in Moscow is a must.  The old historical structure that is so grand and incredible.  If you love architecture, a visit to these stations would be a must-go in your itinerary.  You don't really need to go on a tour.  Some of the highlights / stations to visit: Mayakovskaya, Ploschad Revolyutsii, Dostoyevskaya, Kiyevskaya and Teatralnaya Station and Novoslobodskaya Station.;5;July 29, 2018
The architecture;The metro architecture is stunning! Full of history and classy.Especially in the Mayakovskaya station;5;July 29, 2018
History;I have done this tour before but had 3 hours to fill in before check in so did a city tour then a lunch and 1 1/2 hour tour I know I must be getting old I had forgotten most of the stations;5;July 29, 2018
Comfortable transportation to travel inside Miscow;You can use it to travel in Moscow. Clean, comfortable, fast and full of art. Moscow metro has been built since 1930th. And every year new stations have been added to the Moscow Metro.  One circle line with connected multiple radial lines.  Inside free Wi-Fi .;5;July 28, 2018
Piece of history , architecture in every metro stration;This is the best metro network. Stations are unique with a sense of history and architecture. Much spacious - Most of the trains are not even air conditioned but you do not feel any suffocation or heat.The stations are a piece of art associated with history and great architecture . The escelators are long and unique with ancient looking lights , it gives you a feel that you are back in time or in some indiana jones or world war type movies.Everytime i visited the metro station , i felt that i was in some historic era . Modern but still classy.;5;July 28, 2018
Great facility;Many stations in the centre of the city look like museum, especially those constructed in late 1930s. Great sclputures, panno, lamps etc. Unforgatable!;5;July 28, 2018
Unforgettable Experience;Visiting one of the oldest, deepest and biggest metro in the world is a MUST in Moscow, it's the backbone of Moscow's transportation system. Despite its complicated crisscross lines and crowded ambiences, it's a masterpiece of underground architecture with tremendous touch of the Russian history. It has crazy long escalators with very antique lights. It was really a daily joyful ride!;5;July 28, 2018
Breathtaking;The metro in both Moscow and St Petersburg is a palace like construction.  Filled with art but also with clues to the Soviet era.  It’s astonishing and a not to miss attraction.;5;July 27, 2018
Clean and Fast Service;Took the metro throughout the World Cup. I was impressed by how often the trains came and was SHOCKED at the trains that had live TV in them. So modern!;4;July 27, 2018
An underground museum you´ll visit every day while in Moscow;Without any doubt , Moscow Subway ( Metro) network is one of the deepest in the world and largest too.But what makes a difference about it, are their StationsEach one is different and the whole System can be consider as an Open Underground Museum, with as many rooms as stations it has.So while travelling in Moscow, you are visiting this open free museum without realizing you are doing itSo, why don´t you take a tour throught at least its top 10 stations and afterwards you´ll have a guideline to re discover the treassures hidden on each of its stations. Scultures, paintings roof decorations, wall frescos and ceramics, marvel floors, ect etc are only a few of the thousands details you´ll have to go through.Even during World War 2, Metro never stops running. One pintoresc coment about it: During the same World War, Stalin used some of its Metro Stations as Headquarters !!So now....are you going to take the Metro or are you going to the Museum ??;5;July 27, 2018
Fast and furious;If u've never been in Moscow I reccomend u to travel in Moscow by metro. Of course u'd better have somebody nearby to look after your things and wallet, preferably russian who knows it from inside.;5;July 27, 2018
Very old but fast service.;Moscow metro is very fast service but some trains are very old and some are new. But very difficult to buy ticket. They dont know english well so you have to get help from someone to buy ticket.;3;July 27, 2018
Clean and safe;Took a few trips on the Moscow Metro, very clean, very beautiful architecture and the staff are very friendly.It's easy to get around on foot as well, but just to experience Moscow, get the metro around the city.;5;July 27, 2018
Best Metro I have ever seen;Offers very good connectivity with Moscow. Each station is different from another and some of them are beautifully tailored to the surrounding area. After a bit of help, it is very easy for a non-Russian speaking person to use the Metro. It was very helpful during my stay in Moscow. Very safe as well. The escalators within the stations are huge and such construction is to be appreciated.;5;July 27, 2018
Amazing Metro stations;Take an organised tour with a guide who knows their way around, so you see the best of the amazing Moscow metro stations and learn about their history.  This is a must do.;5;July 26, 2018
Superb   and efficient;Many beautiful and historically meaningful metro stations which are most interesting In addition the train service is exceptional -  fast efficient cheap and very frequent A must see;5;July 26, 2018
Outstanding!;Western countries should learn how to maintain a public infrastructure. A lesson to all in Europe. Cleanest stations compared to all EU metro and punctuality to make envious even a Swiss german.;5;July 25, 2018
Very nice;It's a very organized system, train every 2 mintes and you can get fast and easy for any place.Some stations are very nice to see;5;July 25, 2018
Elegant, and stunning!;Soviet era design all over Moscow metro stations, train was really fast and efficient, never waited next train more than 1 minute most of the time. Peak hour was so crowded if you like a tour of metro please avoid peak hour.;4;July 25, 2018
Easy to use and cheap;At about 50p per use of the system this is an easy way to get around Moscow. The architecture is beautiful. Can be crowed as you would expect. Best time to visit is late evening.;5;July 25, 2018
Outstanding... as good as a museum...a must!!;Like Rome is an outdoor museum (or the whole of Italy for that matter); this metro system is like an underground museum. Be advised that not all of the stops are well decorated BUT all of them are in good condition...much better than any other metro I have seen any where else.To make the best out of your visit I recommend to take the line 5 that circles Moscow and hop on and off in the stations to see them, just wait a minute to let people walk out and then it will not be that crowded and you can get the nice pic and walk around more pleasantly. The stops I liked the most are Belorusskaya, Mayakovskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Komsomolskaya, Taganskaya and Paveletskaya to mention some...I am sure there are a few more I missed but those were really good (specially the first 4 I mentioned).You can't leave Moscow without seeing this.;5;July 25, 2018
The best metro System I have seen;Easy to understand easy to get around very clean spacious the cable cars come every minute very sufficient and most stations in the centre are like museums and it’s very safe.;5;July 24, 2018
Nilesh Sathe;It’s clean, on the dot and speedy. It’s well maintained. Staff is courteous. Elevators are sooooo long that one enjoys standing on it either to go up or to come down.;5;July 24, 2018
Moscow Metro Looks Like Museum;It was my first time to visit Russia, and obviously will not be the last, one of the main thing that really impressed me is the underground, it really looks like a museum!!  And Sbacibo Russia for the unforgettable World Cup.;5;July 24, 2018
Riding the Moscow Metro gives you a unique tour;One of the best experiences of Moscow is visiting the metro stations on the inner circle or Line 14 and it does not cost much to do so. In fact a 50 RUB will get you a ticket to see all of these stations. Just get off at each station take pictures look around and get back on the next train. I saw 6 of these stations before exiting. The trains run about 2 minute intervals. Boarded on carriage that had part of the seats removed for an art gallery. Highly recommended for any first time visitors.;5;July 24, 2018
This is a wonder of the modern world!;We don't know how they do it, but it is truly amazing.  The escalators go down at the speed of light, and the trains come right on time.  You have about 10 seconds to board, and you are off.  Do check which stations are the best to see.  Some of the stations are better/more impressive than others!;4;July 23, 2018
WOW !!;This is one of the prettiest metros I’ve ever seen a. Each stop is more beautiful then the previous one. They now have signs in English so it makes it a little more easy to navigate. It’s clean and safe at night.;5;July 23, 2018
A Great Way to get Around;Hugely beautiful stations with art, glass lighting, tile, and history.  Although sometimes desperately crowded it is always interesting to ride and a great way to get around.  Traffic is always clogged in Moscow, the Metro always gets through.;4;July 22, 2018
Beautiful and efficient;The most beautiful metro in the world, is also probably the most efficient one. Trains come on the dot every 90 seconds and travel really fast. The long ride down the steep escalator while watching the people coming on the other side, is great people watching and worth the price of admission, which is ridiculously cheap. A single ride (with transfers) costs 40 roubles (60 cents), while it is 35 R with a multi-ride pass.;5;July 22, 2018
Must See;The elogance and grandeur of the Moscow metro is uncomparable. Highly recommend using the metro to witness its beauty. Each stop represents a different art scene.;5;July 22, 2018
Art pieces in the metro stations;Really a nice tour to do, we had to wait until the check in time of the hotel, it was rainy. So, the best plan, moving station by ation looking at the nice Russian and soviet art.;5;July 22, 2018
Metro-Museum;The metro in Moscow and in San Petersburg , at least, because I could know, are really nice, very deep, modern and the stations are beautiful, some of them looks like veritable museum.Of course there are no graffitti ni les clochards de París . All the stations are clean. Specially visit Electrozevoskaya, Teatralnaya and others. But the best way is the daily guided tours: info@moscowfreetour.com;5;July 21, 2018
Huge , ornate, fast, grandiose and deep;The Moscow metro is a destination in and of itself. The stations are very ornate and the trains came literally every minute for the World Cup. That prompted one of our daughters to be somewhat disappointing when she had to wait for the BART for 9 minutes after getting back to the West Coast! The escalator rides are about 2 to 3 minutes long...amazing.;5;July 21, 2018
Great Interior Design;A beautiful place that you can not understand it's metro or museum?the only problem is the language and name of the stations which all of them are in russian language!!!!;4;July 21, 2018
Simp!y unbelievable!;Each station is done up differently in style and theme.Although crowded everything works well.Cleanliless outstanding, one could eat off the floor.One has to experience this.;5;July 21, 2018
Don’t leave Moscow without riding on the Metro;I live in New York City, and riding the Moscow Metro made me realize that it is actually possible to run a mass transportation service that is at once super efficient, ultra clean, and that has some very beautiful stations. I only wish New York’s overcrowded, tardy and filthy subway system could learn from Moscow...;5;July 20, 2018
Elegant and efficient;It was joyful to ride in the Moscow metro. Trains come so precisely in time. 1 min a train in the main lines and 2 mins for the not so busy lines.Some stations are architectural beauty. To cross over from red to green to blue etc is so carefully marked.It was a lovely experience.;5;July 20, 2018
Good conection;The all day price iss cheap,is good conected and fast.Main problem is if you dont spoke russian or dont know to read cirilic...is a litlle bit a problem,but with a map and little bit of your personal effort you will handle it without a problem.;5;July 20, 2018
A pretty impressive metro;architecture is amazing ... some english now as well so easier to get around .. the deep escalators at some stations are amazing ....;5;July 19, 2018
Amazing metro;Couldn't imagine doing a tour of the metro, but we did and were astounded. Each of the stations we visited was a work of art with its own themes beautifully displayed through the stations.;5;July 19, 2018
Amazing - better than the tube in London;In which city would you visit the Metro - as a destination in itself? Believe it or not, Moscow is perhaps the only place.;5;July 19, 2018
Fantastic;No visit to Moscow is complete without experiencing the Metro. Very well done mass transit system that works, is safe and very clean. Some of the stations on the red line I think, are like little museums. This is a must do. Even foreigners can navigate due to color coding and male voice toward town and female voice outbound. Great experience.;5;July 19, 2018
One of the best;Great metro system, very efficient, very clean which is certainly missing in London and runs on time at very low cost, certainly the best way to get around Moscow.;4;July 19, 2018
Huge network, but easy to navigate;At first glance the Moscow underground  (Metro) seems daunting, but it is very easy to navigate. Announcements are in Russian  (obviously! ) but also English  (as are the display panels on the trains).It is very easy to move from one line to another - you just need to work out which station  ('skar') you are heading for and plot your route on the underground map.You can buy a ticket for 1 journey or a 24 hour, unlimited ticket at the ticket office - the latter is great if you want to spend the day popping up to the surface to visit various locations or attractions. The prices are really cheap too! Some of the older stations are amazing, the decorations following a theme of the station name. Even the newer ones have something of interest eg Mendeleev Station, has a feature of the scientist's head surrounded by the scientific names of various elements and the lights look like atom molecules (he came up with the periodic table of the elements if you don't know who he is).You could easily spend a week, hopping on and off underground trains just to look at the stations!;5;July 18, 2018
It's just a Masterpiece;If you want to impress yourself, this place is definitely the Must see.Especially those stops which were built in 70-90s. Just stunning.;5;July 18, 2018
Russia world cup;The Moscow Metro system is easy to get the understand even if if looks daunting with the names of the stations.The underground is a very impressive sight there is no expense spared with the marble and lighting of these grand platforms and stations,if your into architecture you would be in your element down in the depths of Moscows underground a must see do and experience.;5;July 18, 2018
Art gallery or metro?;These metro stations are like art galleries.Except the fact that you are going really really underground ,i mean almost every station has couple of hundred step stairs ,when you reach the stations its fabulous!Of course there are multiple lines and is a little bit complicated but don’t worry there is already a mobile app which is solving this problem.So even tough you dont use it for transporting purposes you need to see these art galleries:);5;July 18, 2018
A real highlight;Travelling on the Moscow metro was a real highlight of our time in Moscow.  First thing anyone should do is purchase metro rail card (do this at the airport) and throw yourself into the hurly burly of the locals.   There are many stairs to navigate, but the locals are ready to help with cases - this can be challenging but fun.  The amount of people moved by the Moscow Metro is incredible.  A train comes between 45 sec and 90 seconds, they are fast, loud  and full on.  We spent 2- 3 hours just travelling the met to look at the stations and their architecture.  Great fun and a great way to get used to travelling on the met.  We used it for all of our time in moscow.;5;July 18, 2018
Shiny, new and extremely efficient;My son and I used the Metro to get to the World Cup Final football stadium instead of using a taxi or an app such as Yandex or Uber.The experience was awesome, not least because we had Fan IDs and it was free. The trains were fast and efficient, the stations new and shiny and it's the best way to get around Moscow.It's sometimes a little confusing with the lay-out when looking at maps and areas, but once that's mastered, it's a fantastic way of getting around the city.;4;July 18, 2018
Fantastic - clean - but a bit complicated!;It takes a while to get used to, but once you do this place is fantastic and very cheap. Every station is different architecturally, but also equally beautiful. The people using the Metro are not as grumpy as in England!;5;July 17, 2018
So beautiful;The subway stations on Moscow are the most beautiful that I already saw. Nothing comparable with other big cities around the world. It's a great experience.;5;July 17, 2018
Absolutely Amazing;Great Infra - absolutely amazing metro system with 10 lines. Covers the whole city in no time. All stations are works of art and can easily be made into museums.;5;July 17, 2018
A tour in itself;The ornate architecture of many Moscow Metro stations are a hidden gem. There are websites that will give you the stations to look at, and for the cost of a single ticket you can spend as long or short a time as you wish.The attention to detail of many of these stations defies economic sense - rather a journey of creativity and beauty.;4;July 17, 2018
World Cup;Metro in Moscow was excellent and as a World Cup ticket holder with a valid ID was free , if you have to pay it’s probably very cheap. It’s spotless, efficient and quick.;5;July 17, 2018
Probably the world's best transport system.;The Moscow Metro is astounding. It is fast, efficient, cheap and spotlessly clean. Add to this the fact that many of the stations are like works of art, many are a job to see.Their are tours offered around the network, but I would just buy a ticket and explore on your own.;5;July 17, 2018
Tour of the metro;A must. Took a guided tour. Beautiful murals depicting the history of the USSR and Russia. Also the most convenient and cost effective way to travel within Moscow. A single trip cost less then a dollar per person.;5;July 17, 2018
Amazing metro stations - a must see when in Moscow;Pay your 55 ruble fare and travel the Metro for many hours getting out at the best stations to have a good look around. Then get back on the next train (You'll only have to wait on average about 90 seconds) and go the next station.;4;July 17, 2018
Amazed at different metro stations;Easy and different tour.  No guide needed (unless you want full explanation of each station).  Just buy a ticket and plan your route to visit as many stations as you want.  We visited the 6 most important stations and really like them.  Worth the visit and a really quick tour as it can be done in 1 hour or less!;5;July 16, 2018
A Combination of Art and Efficiency!;Who would think that a subway system could be a thing of beauty? The Moscow underground transit system is the cleanest underground system I've ever experienced throughout the world. Not only is it highly developed like London's, most of the signs are also in English to help Anglophones. Most stunning are the sculptures, mosaics and stained glass that adorn the stations. It is truly spectacular.!;5;July 16, 2018
The metro is full of incredible art and design;We did a formal guided tour. This is an amazing highly functional subway system. The design is superb with anmazin architecture, interior design and artwork. In partuclar the sculptors and mosaics are stunning. As iwere the lights and chandeliers. All stations are different and the design at each station reflects the occupations of the Svietempire and culture of the times. This is a must do.;5;July 16, 2018
Just Amazing..;Have never seen such metro stations before. Every station is different and has a theme of its own. Much can be learned from these metro stations as well! Personally I think it is a must see or visit! One ticket can visit many stations as long as you don’t come out of the station..;5;July 16, 2018
Much better then the London underground.;What a great metro system. Easy to follow never got lost at any time. Clean and tidy.Not much English spoken, but staff so helpful.every station is a throwback to time past. Trains on time, no delays.TFL you could learn a thing or two.Great;5;July 16, 2018
MUST DO in Moscow;This is absolutely something that I recommend everyone to do! There’s so much history in the stations, the ways they were decorated, built and kept since the 1930’sIt is a way to understand Moskovits , and their roots, their culture.How they behave and treat this “museum” like stations They are work of art!It won’t take longer than 2 1/2 hours, and make sure you hire a tourist guide who explains the depth there is behind every construction and renovation made to this well kept actual transportation treasure.;5;July 15, 2018
Amazing;The Metro is amazing , fast reliable ,clean and wi-fi every place and cell connections also the staff is helpful;4;July 15, 2018
Best way to Navigate Moscow;You need to be smart to ride on Moscow as it has no English signage. Stations names are not clearly visible. The interior of stations are amazing. Its art house. A must in Moscow;4;July 15, 2018
Beautiful;There are several really impressive metro stations and it is definitely worth doing some research on which ones to visit and plan around trips there.  We felt safe and enjoyed the metro.  Be aware, though, that most signs in Russian and it can be a little challenging if you are in a hurry to figure things out.;4;July 15, 2018
Very Easy to Use with trains every few minutes;We finally got fed up with taxi drivers ripping us off and headed for the metro. Very cheap and easy to use as well as very cost effective. We were travelling with a 5 month old baby in a pram and the one downside is that in the older stations there are many steps that have to be manouvered, however, our buggy is really light so it wasnt an problem for us. In fact staff were more than helpful when they saw that we had a baby with us and needed assistance.The art work in some of the stations is really quite amazing;5;July 15, 2018
Great experience;Very efficient and clean, wonderfull to see the artwork in each metro, and admire them whilst you travel.;5;July 15, 2018
An Adventure by Yourself Underground;We were hesitant about this underground metro trip because of the language difference. However, with some research we discovered that most of the recommended stations to visit were on the Brown Circle Line.With some assistance at our accommodation we were able to ascertain the number of stations between each stop and the names of the stations we were to get off at.Although there were no English names at the stations the route maps on the trains had the names of the stations on the trains which was a great help. You do not need a guide.By doing it ourselves it cost about $3 each instead of $50 each for a guided tour.;5;July 15, 2018
Metro Masters;Great tour and must see part of any Moscow visit even teenage kids found it interesting Must see with a guide to appreciate Well worth the money;5;July 14, 2018
World Cup;The metro was so easy and so reliable and so quick to get around plus on game day they gave us free entry to the metro it was a wonderful experience I would do it again in a heartbeat. All the stops and even the sum of the people at the gates spoke English.  You can take it from the airport to almost anywhere in moscow cost was like 5 us. Make sure you keep your ticket so you can get out after the train has stopped at your destination.  This is very common in Europe with the trains;5;July 14, 2018
Well worth stopping;We went to many stops to see how different each station was, from the mosaics to the ceilings to the bronze statues the Metro is well worth stopping.  The bronze statues were my favorite, everyone rubbed a dogs nose for good luck and it flowed.;5;July 14, 2018
Wooooow !!!;Best metro in the world. Its not a metro stations , each station its a cultural and art museum. To visited absolutly;5;July 14, 2018
Its like being inside a painting!;You are entering into one of the most impressive art piece in the world! The underground of moscow is something amazing !High ceilings, beautiful drawings and easy to handle system, this experience will make any other public transportation bad .;5;July 14, 2018
Underground Treasure;Clean and organized subway with plenty of history. The fact that the Moscow's metro stations are unique and different from each other and that they are quite amazing to see makes it worth simply going for a ride, station hopping to see that history. Prices are in line with world subways and are slightly cheaper, there are options for 1 3 5 and 7 days passes which are better than singke trips if you plan on moving around.  The cards also allow you to make use of the buses.;5;July 14, 2018
Must Visit;By metro transit , can view different metro station in different interior design between 18th and 19th Century where full of graft work. Amazing and surprise if you are the person who like art and history.;4;July 14, 2018
group visit;all the station are amazing you need to visit because all the stations have a lot off arts inside look my pictures and you will love all;5;July 13, 2018
Easy with amazing architecture;Metro is simple to use. No different to TFL underground except some of the architecture at some stations. Huge place, some huge escalators some trains very old and noisy. Some signage not the easiest to understand but ok when you get used to it. You only pay to enter the metro network. Very cheap, 55rbls each time you enter. You can buy tickets for multiple use that works out better value!!;5;July 13, 2018
Artsy!;Not too difficult to navigate. Take your time inside and enjoy the art work, it's beautiful and free!;5;July 13, 2018
Simply beautiful;The Moscow Metro is something that you would only see in the movies or television. The architectural structure at the stations we visited were all beautiful and extravagant! Simple and easy to navigate. Not overwhelming. We purchased an unlimited pass card to use for a week. Not expensive.;5;July 13, 2018
Must See Moscow Metro tour!;Moscow metro is very impressive! The sculptures, paintings, art work - a must see! Don't forget to rub the golden nosed dog!;5;July 13, 2018
Great experience;Some really stunning stations, really worth taking a free hours just to visit the most beautiful ones.As a metro service was very efficient and cost effective way to travel;4;July 13, 2018
Great;The Russian govt has invested or wonder if this is the case before but the metro system is very very efficient and covers every part of Moscow. We travelled everywhere on the metro and it was worth it with 35 rub per trip on any direction if I’m correct. Pls get a travel card so it’s all bus or metro covered. All had English signs and direction except 1 station which I can’t recall :( but the network is great!!!! And easy to use. I was impressed how the evacuation was efficient after the games with quicker trains coming in.;4;July 13, 2018
Efficient and Inexpensive;Would recommend that you download the app so you can figure out how to get from A to B with more ease but using the metro was straight forward enough!;4;July 12, 2018
Incredible network;The Moscow metro is an incredible experience. The stations themselves are like an art gallery and each with its unique architecture and art. The stations are very efficient and each ticket office has an English speaker which makes it very easy to buy tickets. The moscow metro app was also very helpful.;5;July 12, 2018
Clean and reliable;Used the metro to get around Moscow during the world cup. Clean and reliable and very busy.and used a metro app to help me negotiate the metro as I don't read Russian.;4;July 12, 2018
Experience local daily movement and its wonderful ...;One of the best underground route to experience by tourist and this   is the way you may really experience local movements and daily lifestyle here. Most incredible part was each station promised you with different look and design and every station have story to tell. Its become one of the tourist attraction and i believe we appreciate this place not only as easy way to reach anywhere easily but the interior that really beautiful...;4;July 11, 2018
wonderful;The Moscow metro is a true wonder.You go undergraound 100 meters and more to see people running like aunts in a fire and you discover there real treasures/ The beauty of the stations is incredible, real palaces under the ground. In one of them you find magnifecent  collection of vitraj , in others typical statues of the commounist era,  another one decorated with beautiful pictures framed wth woden frames etc. I was told that Stalin wanted to give his nation a feeling of staying in palaces and indeed they are.;5;July 11, 2018
Still the best;I have used it for 20 years, but still enjoy every time when I visit Moscow 20 years later. New stations are quite different, but the old one are the history. Take a tour and enjoy! Select quite time, if possible, to realize how many people and lives crossed a station...;5;July 11, 2018
Underground artistry;The Moscow underground is a subterranean treat. Ornately decorated stations surprise you when you least expect it. Buy a ticket and treat yourself to a tour of the numerous adorned metro stations including Kiyevskaya, Mayakovskaya and Ploschad Revolyutsii (or Revolution Square). Besides the splendour of art, sculpture, lights and colours, the Metro is easy to use, efficient and well equipped with wifi!;5;July 11, 2018
Best ever Metro Design;Moscow has unique underground network with antic design of the metro station. I was taking the train just to stop in each station and enjoy the beautiful art in the wall and roof of the station. You see something which you have never ever seen it before....;5;July 11, 2018
the only way to travel;Moscow is known for it's horrific traffic and that is exactly what it was. The Metro is the only way to travel in Moscow. It is clean and safe. The trains are very frequent and it is easy to figure out.  Some of the stations are very old but beautiful. Most of the trains are old but they are fast. Get a pass and use the metro. Stay away from Taxis and use the Metro.;5;July 11, 2018
One should experience to Moscow metro too.!!;Every station is different it is way, A couple of them have Graffiti on them. While enetering the station they are steep elevators there.;4;July 11, 2018
WOWWW;this is the best subway station i ever seen. full of art inside and the interior.design very stunning. so beautiful. recomended to try and visit.;5;July 10, 2018
The most beautiful metro in the world;I've never wanted to exit every stop on a metro until I've been here. Every stop has its own theme and it's absolutely breathtaking. Some stops seem to be made of gold while others made of marble. It's really hard to explain. You just have to see it for yourself. It's a must!;5;July 10, 2018
Convenient, pretty and reaches everywhere;Very pretty stations and is all around the city. Very steep escalators and excellent service. Though it can be quite crowded at times. Definitely worth a visit if you don't use public transportation but pick the main stations that's where you will find more art.;4;July 10, 2018
Absolute must-see;Central stations (inside the circle line, including central line itself) is an absolute must-see for any visitor. And note that some of other stations are pretty interesting too, including some of the newly opened stations.;5;July 10, 2018
Beautiful paintings of all types of trades on the walls.;Dont miss it. Not just a railway station. So glad we went. So facinating. Look foward to returning in the nextcoulpe of years.;5;July 10, 2018
Moscow metro is one of the best I have used;The stations are beautiful, if you’re going to be there for several days I suggest buying the 20-trips card. The trains are always on time and the frequency great. It covers most of the city and now it has the name of the stations in English, I understand it wasn’t like that before. Learning the Cyrillic alphabet is highly recommended and interesting, it helps to move around.;5;July 10, 2018
Sightseeing by train...;We bought a 55 rubel ticket and traveled around the underground for some 2 hours. We mainly did the circle line, left every single station for 5 minutes and took the next metro. The green line (number 2) in the city center has also some nice stations. Our favourites were: Kievskaya, Belorusskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Komsomolskaya and Mayagovskaya. But of course this is very subjective opinion. Anyhow, perfect sight seeing in case of bad weather. Otherwise plan your trip to do at least one metro ride visiting at least 2 of above mentioned stations.;5;July 10, 2018
The most beautiful and most effective subway in the world.;Moscows subway is the most beautiful one in the world. Many stations were build of  marble and granite, with ornaments and jigsaws. No wonder that you can always meet groups of foreign tourists making their photo shootings there. It not expensive - you get a ride for about 50 cents, and once inside you may stay there and ride around as long as you wish. It's fast - in rush times there is a train every 40 seconds (!) so you never have to check timetables or stuff. It's clean - the stations get cleaned every night with wet sawdust. Compare this with other subways you may know.;5;July 10, 2018
the most beautiful metro in the world!;If you like art deco, memories of the communist times. etcthe metro in moscow is certainly the most beautiful metro in worldworth to try;5;July 10, 2018
I used the Moscow subway several times during a recent visit.;Many of the subway stations have murals, mosaics, chandeliers and statues making them the most fancy subway stations I have ever used!!  The trains were easy to use, a ride is cheap, the station is spotless and it is like being in an art gallery.  Definitely must try this system at least once if you are visiting Moscow.;5;July 10, 2018
tidy and impressive;amazing, took the train from park pobedy to moscow cityquick, clean, had a seat, no rush, beautiful place , and cheap, i paid about 800 roubles for 20 rides. beats london with its 8-10 pounds a day ticket! UK is a rip off!;5;July 10, 2018
An experience not to miss;An old but efficient system. Nice stops and can enjoy good music too. The signboards unfortunately are in Russian and no English translations.;5;July 10, 2018
World Cup 2018;I have been to many cities with metros/subways and I have to say, the cleanliness, timeliness, and beauty of the stations, surpass any expectation anyone could have of Russia/Moscow.  Their system is fantastic and beautiful, and an added bonus, easy to follow!;5;July 10, 2018
Best underground railways in the world;All stations inside Circle line of Moscow Metro have beautiful architecture, Most stations on Red line (1) too. New yellow line (left side of map) also is very impressive. I recommend to watch them.;5;July 10, 2018
UNBELIEVABLE FREQUENCY;Id say less than a minute between trains. The efficiency is to be seen to be believed, not to mention the architecture and the fantastic grid and ease of connection. Super Impressed.;5;July 10, 2018
Best Metro Stations of Moscow;Metro Stations are unique with lot of art and paintings . Most of the stations are with 3 or 4 level down the ground level with long long escalators...nice experience;4;July 10, 2018
Metro Museum;Excellent art display in the metro stations, very easy to visit, just get in the metro and stop in most of the stations and enjoy the beauty of art and history.;5;July 10, 2018
Extraordinary;Moscow metro is a world famous transportation network, unique in its way. All stations are different and a lot of them really are pieces of art. Clean, full of light, they look like palaces. And now for the World Cup all the signs are in English, it made it very easy for tourists yo find their way. There are even tv screens in trains that you can watch the match during your trip! Trains run frequently, no traffic jams, quickly and safe all around the city. Perfect! Cost is 55 roubles for a single trip (80 cents) and you can go wherever you want. If you buy Troika card, the ticket is even cheaper!;5;July 9, 2018
Uber is cheap but this is cheaper & an experience you'll never forget.;Coming from New York, these subways here in Moscow are like a museum at every station! Clean, beautiful, serviced and artwork all over.  There is even a surprise of people playing the violin and other instruments every so often.  Also, it is really easy to follow the maps, my daughter is a master of them in only one day,  Also tons of security, you'll feel safe and comfortable.  I 100% recommend getting a subway card and go enjoy!   If it's a rain day, go tour the stations, you'll be happy you did.  PLUS, enter one station and pay once and don't pay til you leave.  ENJOY!  :)Fyi... they call the Subway Metro in Moscow.;5;July 9, 2018
Amazing!;Besides its amazing looks what I really enjoyed was the efficiency of the system. it's superb, train come every 40 seconds in some cases.;5;July 9, 2018
You have to try this even if you go only one stop!;The Moscow Subway is a living museum as well as being an efficient means of transportation.  It is SPOTLESS. It is filled with art:  bronze statues, mosaics, and decorative flooring on its. platforms. The trains are fast and clean.  And, because I was using a cane, each time I got on the crowded subway, someone immediately got up and offered me a seat. Not likely to have that happen on the DC metro or the New York  subway.;5;July 9, 2018
Must see!;This is a place which each tourist visiting Moscow must see. If you have time take a tour of Moscow Metro. It is worth seeing. But if you came only for a short visit, and do not have time for a tour, and you have to chose only one station, go to this one,  Mayakovskaya.;5;July 9, 2018
Unique and efficient;trains arrive every 1.5 minutes, and easy to figure out despite the language barrier with English. Fanciful, and avant garde stylized stations, while the trains are a little bit aged and speedy.;4;July 9, 2018
Must see;Moscow metro (subway) is like an museum of art and history in one place. Be sure to touch the dog’s nose at the station “Square of Revolution” for good luck.;5;July 9, 2018
Best way to get around Miscow;If you want to really experience moscow and it’s people, do take the metro. It might scary you off the first time, but it’s actually quite convenient. I love it. It’s fast, direct, clean and more safe than travel above the ground.;4;July 9, 2018
Amasing;Is fantastic like a museum, very very nice, easy to use, cheap it cost less than 1 dolar and y very safe too.;5;July 9, 2018
An absolute treasure;To say that Moscow metro is legendary is to say nothing. Definitely something that everyone has to experience. The beauty, the grandeur, the kaleidoscope of different styles is simply breathtaking. A guide can make the whole experience even more magical, as there are many curious facts to discover!;5;July 9, 2018
best metro in the world;it is the most pragmatic way to travel while in MOscow . i was there for the world cup . so easy to change lines and it is very fast metro . better then the one in france and germany;5;July 9, 2018
Efficient and beautiful;The metro network is one of the most beautiful in the world. A number of stations built like ornate/decorated palaces. However, what stands out even more are the efficiency of the operations and the realisation that it is really extensive;5;July 9, 2018
Always on time and effiecient.;Mayakovskaya and Komsomolskaya (brown line) stations are really something but most of the old stations have something to photograph and marvel at. A feast for the eyes, just avoid them during rush hour.;5;July 8, 2018
Superb;The best metro stations that this planet ever had. Located down under, functioned as bunker for protection of the citizen in the Cold War era. Yet, it has a beautiful interior that no other metro in this planet have. Night tour would be better to avoid the crowd;5;July 8, 2018
Works of art and efficient too;I’ve not seen a Metro system like this anywhere in the world. Efficient, well priced, easy to use and so beautiful. We did a tour of our own, so could experience some of it when not full of commuters. ( and not get in their way!) ones that stood out were Park Pobedy for the longest metro escalator in the world at 130m! Loved Elektrozavodskaya and many others.;5;July 8, 2018
well working matro;The Metro both here and in St. Petersburg work fantastic well. trains moving out every 1-2 minutes.. I would say it works better than, NY, London & Paris.. Easy to figure out.. City/stop names are also in english;5;July 7, 2018
Stunning;The Moscow Metro is stunning - a must see if visiting Russia. Unlike the London Underground or other metro systems, you won't see cables hanging from the ceiling. Each station is unique and is a work of art in itself.;5;July 7, 2018
Spectacular;Missed our guidwd tour. Decided ti the do the metrobtour ourselves. Turned out to be more fun. Making our way feom 1 ineterting metro to another spectaculsr one while reading its history and discovering the hidden gems ourselves. Among the best activities Moscow has to offer;5;July 7, 2018
Unmissable;Moscow subway is a must to visit if not to use as your normal way of transportation during your stay. It is a combination of old cars, modern stations, new cars, old stations which resemble museums. As in most big cities in the world the best place to be in touch with the local population habits and costumes.;5;July 7, 2018
The most beautiful subway in the world!;I haven't been to a metro as beautiful and as well connected as the one in Moscow. Want to go to point A - hey take this line, point B -take this line and so on! Every damn spot around Moscow is impressively accessible by the Moscow metro line. And each metro station has a beauty of its own.Tip: Get a day pass for 218 RUB is you're in the city for a couple of hours, it allows you unlimited access on the metro lines for 24 hours. What I enjoyed the most: The super inclined escalator lines in each metro station. They were steep and long. The escalator at "Park Pobedy" station is the longest in the world: its length reaches 130 meters. The Moscow Metro has 13 lines and 203 stations. The total length of lines is about 340 kilometers.Follow me on instagram @the_bay_wife for more info and pictures from my trips.;5;July 7, 2018
Impressive;I've been in Moscow during the Mondial and experienced a very accueate Metro, scattering loads of people very effectivelly. On top, the stations themselves are beutiful and worthwhile visited as a destination by themselves. It shows that when built, the Russians wanted to make a point to the world and indeed they did. No other way (fast, cheap and interesting to go around the city. Most recommended!;5;July 7, 2018
historical;See the old times through these sculptures and pictures! Amazing!All the tourists here were amazed by these beautiful pictures! Love it;5;July 6, 2018
You can not imagine;Really you can’t imagine It is very useful and you can use application ( MosMetro ) to find your destination Easily;5;July 6, 2018
Historical beauty;Taking metro like walking in gallery. It’s witness historical beauty. Very crowd with lots of people. Cleanliness is okay. Quite noisy when train in and out;4;July 6, 2018
Very efficient.;Used it extensively. Was punctual. Efficient. Loved it. Coverage of center was very good. We only used a taxi on the last day to go to the airport. Also we did a short tour of the stations. This list is provided in some travel directories. Beautiful stations. Highly recommended. Most stations may not have ways in which persons with disability can make it to the platform. They should check.;5;July 6, 2018
Easy to Use with some Unusual Architecture;This is extremely efficient and a great way to get around the city.  We did the metro tour, when we saw quite a number of stations with some very interesting designs, which were well worth seeing.;5;July 5, 2018
Beauty Under your Feet;The Moscow Metro is without a doubt one of the nicest metros in the entire world. The price is very cheap, and I would recommend buying a troika card to save money. The security checks are very quick, so there is not as much waiting. The trains themselves come every minute and give you enough time to get on or off. But with sporting events the cars can become very crowded. The best part, however, are the stations. They are filled with Soviet art, from hammer-and-sickle mosaics to sculptures of crouched soldiers. A very wonderful experience.;5;July 5, 2018
Fifa World cup 2018;Moscow metros are just amazing. Loved each and every station we used. It might be bit tiring for young kids when changing to different lines as sometimes its quite a walk. Loved the long escalators and beautiful art installation all around the station.;5;July 5, 2018
World Cup 2018;The Metro puts our underground tube to shame I think if I waited more than a minute for another train I would be lying....Trains literally come every minutes VERY GOOD SERVICE Does need a bit of planning to what line you want but plenty of signs aroundThe architect is amazing and I would recommend a Metro Tour;5;July 5, 2018
Excellent;This is the best metro station I have ever been to.  It has history, class, character. It resembles Russia today, and during the days is the Soviet union.;5;July 5, 2018
Good, effective and Old stations are beautiful;The Moscow metro works Well. Fast, although it can be very crowdediSome stations in the Old city are very beautiful, make the brown metro Tour, hop on and off. Do not forget to look at the ceilings.;4;July 5, 2018
Best Metro System;Great experience using the Moscow metro system. We went for the World Cup and the metro was ideal and easy to navigate after learning how to use the system and connections. During World Cup, the metro was free for us fans with a FIFA FAN-ID. It was easy to use. If you are going after the World Cup, recommend you to buy 10-15 ticket bundle first time so that you do need to go back and buy more. Each ticket is a ONE WAY ONLY ticket, that is the reason why to buy a bundle. They also have a one ticket with value added that you can get instead of buying multiple tickets this one valued tickets each time you use the metro it subtracts amount, easier way really.;5;July 4, 2018
on time;Never been on a metro that was so on time. Missed the train another is right behind it. Maybe because of the world cup but they are always on time and security is tight so its safe. Never have I been in such a clean place also. No tags or anything like that. The art work at each of the terminals is awsome. Some spanning from the cold war but still awsome;5;July 4, 2018
Worth the $2 ticket to see how beautiful the stations are;Imagine marble and crystal chandeliers in New York Subway - no way, but in Moscow, many stations have a theme and amazing decorations. Well worth a trip around the different stations to get off and enjoy. Trains come every 2 minutes, so it's very easy to get around and more efficient than a cab.;5;July 4, 2018
Affordable and Beautiful.  Great experience.;It's probably one of the cheapest tourist attraction in Moscow.  For the price of one ride 55RUB (less than $1) you get to ride on the Metro and go visit different stations.  Every station is different in design, from ultra modern in the new lines to the old ones built like a palace.  We did it on a rainy afternoon.  What I discover is that the metro was not only built for transit but also for people to meet and hang out.  I guess they were just waiting for their friends but it's also a great place to people watch.  The metro itself if very efficient and easy to navigate.  You can also download a very helpful app "Yandex Metro".;5;July 4, 2018
Beautiful;Very beautiful metro stations, especially when you compare it to one in London or New York. However, the escalators are steep and it's a long ride down or up. I have severe vertigo, so every-time I was on it, I had to shut my eyes and pray. It is super clean and very convenient.;5;July 4, 2018
Must see;I recommend just take line 5 to visit more attractive stations.  There is a few beautiful station in other lines but most of them are located in line 5   ... visit all station in line 5.;4;July 3, 2018
Old is Gold;Moscow metro is a bit complicated when its come to the language. Once you are accustomed with the both English & Russian bilingual map, its very easy, comfortable & cheap mean of transport. Russian Metro covers the whole city. There is also Metro tours available with tour agencies.;5;July 3, 2018
Worth a Tour;The architecture and history are worth spending time in the Moscow Metro (in addition to the inexpensive price and frequency of trains).  Check out the sculptures, murals and details — it is well worth it!;5;July 3, 2018
Memorable and efficient metro;Two big features. It can get you anywhere in Moscow quickly. Some of the stations are worth visiting as tourist locations by themselves. Don't go if you don't like escalators. It's pretty easy to find your way around (but sometimes needed some staring at the many signs), it certainly helps to be able to uncode the Cyrillic (though many placenames are in both scripts.;5;July 3, 2018
The best system and stations;The Moscow metro system is amongst the best in the world. There are trains that come every minute. The cost to get onto to metro (one way) is 55 rubles. You can purchase your ticket at the ticket machines (there is an English option) or at the ticket counters. All of the metro stations are unique in their own way. You can spend half a day visiting these stations; hop on, hop off, take photos and get back on. My favourite metro station is Komsomolskaya. This station is absolutely stunning and is one of the nicest stations I have seen. There are pictures on the roof which are symbolic and are a reminder of the Soviet times. If you wanted to visit a few metros, I would recommend you go on the brown line as they have the nicest stations. If you have internet on your iPhone, download the app, 2GIS. This app really saved me with the metro system. It tells you what colour line to catch, where to change and how many stations before your stop.;5;July 3, 2018
What an amazing Metro system!;Amazing, some incredibly beautiful stations. Amazing service, trains seem to arrive inside a minute every time. Excellent network structure which provides easy undercover line changes to get you anywhere on the network. Great value also!;5;July 3, 2018
Convenient, Inexpensive, and Easy to Navigate;I have always been a fan of public transportation, but I have never found a system I appreciate as much as I appreciate the Moscow Metro. Once you invest in a Troika card, you are pretty much unstoppable. You can go almost anywhere you want for a mere 36 rubles per trip. The variety of station design is impressive, and the speed and convenience can't be beat.;5;July 3, 2018
Line #6 on the Metro;Like visiting an art gallery! Amazing, I highly recommend. We visited Mayakovskaya, Komsomolskaya, Belorusskaya and Paveletskaya. Quick, easy to get to them with a 1 day Metro card (about 200 roubles) and Instagram-worthy photo opportunities. In some stations there were even selfie spots marked in the floor!;5;July 2, 2018
Moscow underground own tour;This is a tour you can easily do yourself. Get on the brown line and you will see most off them. Jump off at each station. Take photo then get back on. Trains arrive every 1 1/2 minutes.  If you are there on a Sunday then go around 8am and you will have an empty underground. Otherwise try and go around 9am other days.  When you get off the train it will be a hive off activity but it quickly empties while commuters run to get there next train.  This is when you have a minute to snap away. There are other stations off the brown line. Just look them up.  It really is simple to do without a tour guide.;5;July 2, 2018
Like getting off at a museum on every stop;I followed a guide i found online on how to tour the Metro System, and on what stops to get off. The Metro is absolutely breathtaking, exceptionally clean and beautiful. The mosaics on ceilings and walls are quite beautiful, and the history behind this Metro system is great. Will definitely recommend not to leave Moscow without seeing this, be it with a guided tour or on your own;5;July 2, 2018
Fast, efficient but might not be comfortable;You need tickets to enter but no ticket to exit. Metro station looks classic, beautiful building. Low ceiling at some places. Metro is fast although might no be that comfortable as the use open air ventilation. But it gets you to where you want, that's most important;4;July 2, 2018
Amazing;Toronto's TTC can learn what efficient means by visiting Moscow's underground which is old yet well maintained and taken care off and never misses a beat . Trains are so frequent I never waited more than a minute during my entire stay then, comes the beauty of these stations, the are and the attention to details. The cleanliness is out of this world. The station were always crowded yet always clean. People were polite and always asking if us if we needed help. I loved it and Russia is a great country and the rest of the world should take notice.;5;July 2, 2018
Efficient and beautiful;Definitely the best (and only) way to move within Moscow. Very efficient, with very high frequency and clean! As a bonus it is also full of art masterpeaces (really beautiful). Do not miss it!;5;July 2, 2018
Quick, clean, efficient;Large networked system serving all of Moscow.  Easy to find stations, low cost options for travel.  No signage in English makes picking the right train or exit a bit tricky.  Trains all had English announcements for stations.;4;July 2, 2018
The most wonderful underground system anywhere;I used this every day during the World Cup visit - trains are regular and when you change lines you miss the next few trains as you are just stunned by the magnitude and beauty of some of the stations. An incredible and cheap way of enjoying Moscow. Get a "Troika Card" - its like the Oyster in London - and as noone speaks English - say Troika and hand over a 500 rouble note waving to indicate to put it all on the card. The card costs 50 roubles, and 450 roubles gets you 8 or more journeys.;5;July 2, 2018
Amazing;Fascinating to experience the history of a city and culture through the metro - an amazing introduction to politics as well.;5;July 2, 2018
Best Metro I Have Seen;I have used the metro in NYC, Paris, Berlin, St. Petersburg, and London, and this is hands down the best. It is extremely cheap, fast, clean, beautiful, and easy to use.Because of this, the metro is probably the best choice for getting around Moscow.;5;July 2, 2018
Beauty of Moscow Metro!;A tour of Moscow Metro stations is like walking through the metro museum except they are still very much in use by Moscovites for their daily commute! The exquisite art pieces and beautiful paintings depicting recent Russian history (including its communist past - Lenin mural paintings being one of the most common within the stations) with a local guide to help explain what they meant was really an eye-opener for me. And how deep one needs to travel down on an equally (and quite unbelievably) long escalators to get to these stations is a marvel by itself. A must see in Moscow!;5;July 2, 2018
Nothing could be better;This is a must see. The granduer is incredible. Experience travel for ease & convenience to move about. The trains run impeccably, the escalators provide ease & facilitate large orderly movement. One of these was also used as bomb shelter in second world war.;5;July 2, 2018
Superbly connected, great frequency and stunning architecture;The scale and grandeur of the mosco metro takes you by Surprise. Totally underground it runs across various levels. Some of the escalators are like a deep plunge into the dungeon . Some stations represent the old architecture and some are modern layout.Very well connected, download metro app and get familiar with options around you. Most signages are in Russian so make your notes. Metro works on flat rate per trip so is extremely economical for long and 1-2 trips in a day. Various exits and entry fromsame platforms/ trains may lead you to different stations so bear that in mind while planning your trip. Most confusing bit is to remember which direction metro to take omce you have identified your route, it actually gets a little confusion when you down there, up and down trains are typically marked as 1 & 2 so make a note of same. Not all metro stations have toilets or outlets for water etc.Metro is well kept and in the time we travelled they werent too crowded, we were there during FIFA so frequency for excellent almost every 2-3 mins! Inside route displays are all in Russian. Co passengers unless hooked to earphones are genrally friendly and can guide. Best to plan your hotels within walking range of metro to save majorly on travel. What type or which line of metro doesnt really matter as it may just mean additional 15-20 mins or 2-3 change overs but with flat metro fare it will cost you the same and would be the fastest. My son is 8 yr old and he got to travel free, so saves money there too!Loads of pictures can be taken, def on the deep escalators and architectural beauty. Metro are combinations of steps and escaltor and quite are few sections are just step, did’t see lifts but exit steps have a ramp inter terminal connectors did not hve one, so elderly people may have little problem. You would otherwise see locals with foldable bicycles, kids scooty and strollers, skateboards etc.;5;July 1, 2018
Beautiful 'Palace' of the Russians;This is my forth visit to Moscow, and it is also the forth time I took their Metro. However, my group stayed in Moscow for four nights, and thus I have the opportunity to take the Moscow subway on my own to travel around, and not just by visiting the metro stations.The one ride single ticket costs 50 Rubles. It is possible to buy multiple tickets - 20 and 40 and thus enjoying cheaper rides per ride. The metro is a reliable way to travel around as the traffic condition in Moscow is really bad. The metro train comes every one minute. There are altogether twelve lines and it is important to remember the name - Teatralnaya station as this will lead you to the Red Square. Just like to share three beautiful stations with the readers here - Komsomolskaya, Mayakovskaya and Belorusskaya station. Komsomolskaya is a classic design with Baroque ceiling and hanging chandeliers. Look out for the mosaics up on the ceiling.Mayakovskaya is a more futuristic design and was named after the poet Mayakovsky. There are 34 ceiling mosaics which mean 24-hour Soviet Sky. Belorusskaya is named after the nearby Railway station with trains departing westwards to Belarus and western Europe.Do take some time to marvel at the structure, mosaics, marbles, and even precious stones at these stations or some others. It is worth the time. No where else would you find more beautiful Subway Stations in the world to rival these in Moscow.;4;July 1, 2018
Excellent;While traveling back from Spartek Stadium to Red Square  we took Metro which was all free for FIFA Fans. Every station we passed through was different and classical.;5;July 1, 2018
Very Impresive;Travelled by metro a lot whilst in Moscow.The tickets are easy to buy, either at the ticket booths or the machines. 1 ticket = 1 journey on either train, metro, bus or shuttle. You can buy a bigger pass if you pan on using the travel service a lot, and it is good value for money. The metro stations themselves are stunning with fantastic decor. They are very clean and and frequent,. Defiantely need to take time to admire the stations in between journey.;5;June 30, 2018
World Cup Tour 2018;Great service- every 2 - 5 minutes a trained stopped. The stations are clean and clearly sign posted, though it helps to know the Russian alphabet. There is staff on hand to help if necessary. You pay per journey, regardless of how far you go. We took a self guided tour of the metro station, some are quite breathtaking.;5;June 30, 2018
Impressive!;Visit the Moscow metro! It worth and this is cheap. :)The most beautiful are : komsomolskaya  and Maïakovskaïa;5;June 30, 2018
Speachless;Well where do I start - its a Metro, and it is very, very loud. It works very efficiently (we never waited more than 2 minutes for train) and the network covers all of Moscow - well the bits that we needed to get to. Its affordable and you can get a pass that makes traveling very easy.But its so much more than this - beautiful stations, wonderful works of art and and very interesting politics.There is no advertising on the metro - a first and one that allows you to appreciate the lovely materials and craftsmanship of the construction and finishesUnderstand were you need to get off as the signage is not great and you may need to count the stations. Also, the names are in cyrillic script so not easy to read;5;June 30, 2018
Almost a century old and still running... well!;I come from a country where the metro is barely 30 years old and is already having major problems - prioritizing profit being one of the major reasons. Commuting via the Moscow metro is the total reverse - Old but not obsolete but working well!Talking about trains frequency, the intervals between trains can range from around 30seconds or not more than 2 minutes on the average. Next comes the speed, trains travel between stations at high speeds. If you have a local Russian no, there is also free wi-fi available on board. However, the downside of the Moscow metro is its noise. Having said that, the priority is to get from Point A to Point B, quickly! Hence, this is no major issues. Then there was this thing about how deep the metro actually runs - I timed the escalator speed from the train platform all the way to the surface and it took more than a minute! Built back in the 1930s, these tunnels were dug very deep and functioned not only as a subway but also as a bomb shelter. Very safe indeed and its remarkable engineering that the Soviet Union did back then.Next was the art - every station is unique in their own way and have different types of art representing various Soviet themes. Revolution Square( Ploschad Revolutsi ) had different sculptures of Soviet citizens back then etc..So much so that one can spend simply a day or so exploring just the various subway stations. Last point to note for non Russian speaking visitors - it is pleasing to note that English translations are available in the subway. However, for those who understand Russian or at least know how to read the Russian alphabets, it will not be so difficult for you to find the way around as this will come in handy in identifying the stations name. The Moscow Metro is highly reliable and I'd recommend another visitor to Moscow to have a ride on it. If you've not been to the Moscow metro, you have not visited Moscow!;4;June 30, 2018
Incredible;Muscovites are apparebtly immune to the fact that they commute through a living museum every day on their way to wherever they go.You don't need a guided tour, simply check out online which stations are the most popular from an historic/artistic perspective & go from one to the next on the brilliant & magnificent Metro system.;5;June 30, 2018
Beautiful architecture, efficient.;By far the best metro I've ever seen. Trains run on time and often. Stations themselves are amazing to see and most have their own unique story behind them.;5;June 29, 2018
Great experience;We planned a trip around the metro ourselves, choosing beforehand a number of stations that we would like to see. If you plan ahead you can find good recommendations of the best metro stations. For one ticket you can go anywhere in the vast system, but you have to get a new ticket if you leave the station. Incredible that Stalinistic architecture can be beautiful and very strange to see some of the stations inspired by the Christian cathedrals.;4;June 29, 2018
Nice in Moscow because uber fails;Excellent maps, price and comfort. It is the best way to move in Moscow. Don’t be “démodé” and try this option when you staying at the city. At the first trip I tough it was difficult but at the second day... things worked fine. Also it is a good place to see communism stations.;5;June 29, 2018
Grandeur;The Moscow underground is a marvel by any standard. Marble walls, grand entrances and ceiling of detail that most miss. It represents the prestige of the old days in architecture of spender to impress. It has changed little and offers a portal to the old days.;5;June 29, 2018
Fast and beautiful;When you need to get somewhere fast, def choose metro. Central stations are very beautiful, u can get a pick at Russian complicated soul. Look for people touching different statues for good luck and making their wish.( ploshchad revolyutsii especially) ✨;5;June 29, 2018
Moscow Metro ......fantastic;Easily the most beautiful Metro Stations in the World .....hands down !!!Fantastic connectivity and travel for World Cup fans was a breeze !!!;5;June 29, 2018
Have to visit;You only need 1 metro ticket (less than US$ 1) to visit it! Every station looks like a work of art at a museum! I suggest to make the tour at night, because during the day it is very crowded and difficult for taking pictures!!! The red line (1) is the one with the most beautiful ones!!;5;June 29, 2018
Very easy to ride;Once you understand the name of the stations in russian, it is very simple to ride, and the some of thr stations are very pretty.;5;June 28, 2018
Art and Architecture Experience;The Moscow Metro is a treat to see.  Visit the stations described in guide books or local brochures to see some of the most elegant public art, paintings, mosaics, and architectural style that you can imagine.;5;June 28, 2018
Astounding;Get the most astounding experience for only 36 rubles. We went to see 5-6 stations on our metro tour, including Novokuznetskaya, Ploshchad Revolyutsi, Elektrozavodskaya, Komsomolskaya and Novoslobodskaya. One more fantastic than the other. Apart from that we took the time to enjoy the stations we met whenever we used the metro. Definately the time.;5;June 28, 2018
Park of our guided tour - fabulous!;I have never seen a metro that is so clean, calming and actually beautiful!!  It was quite a ways underground (since it was considered a bomb shelter also), and the way they have decorated it was splendid!! Didn't feel confined or rushed on this metro. It really is something you should see and experience!;4;June 28, 2018
Beautiful! Well run and organized;I was a little nervous to take the metro since I don't speak Russian but the lines are very easy to figure out. The stations are beautiful. They have chadoliers, statues, and are incredibly clean. We never got lost and if we stopped to try to figure out where to go someone always stopped to help us. With all the traffic this is definately the way to travel around moscow.;5;June 28, 2018
Incredible;I remember when i was your in the 70s and someone was going to moscow. reporting the beaty of the metro stations. It is all true. Resemble the old fashion comunist regime but they are worth a visit. yes;5;June 28, 2018
Must see subway;Moscow subway (Московское метро) - the great must-to-see place in moscow. You defonitely need to attend historical stations near Kremlin.;5;June 28, 2018
Some stunning architecture;Some beautiful pieces of architecture and art can be found beneath the streets of Moscow.   Simply stunning.;5;June 28, 2018
Best means of transport;Best and easy way of getting around in Moscow. Very easy access and helpful staff if you need help. Clean and efficient.;5;June 27, 2018
Get this on your Bucket list!;Visiting a Moscow Metro station at random you still have a one in four chance of arriving at a station classed as either “magnificent “ or “beautiful” by architecture critics.;5;June 27, 2018
Heaps of trains and routes.;Used the metro for the World Cup period which was busier then usual obviously. Ticket machines have english option thankfully. Staff didn't speak english. Plenty of trains , no timetable as such, trains came atleast every 3 minutes.  Trick is to remember the train stops russian spelling.  We preferred using Gett taxi app which was cheap and so easy to use but traffic can get hectic.;4;June 27, 2018
Not just a Metro but museum;Just wooooooow. Unbelievable. You can spend one day just visiting stations. The train is fast and arrives every 1.5 mins. Not crowded even in 2018 world cup.;5;June 27, 2018
A city beneath the city;A very good way to travel in Moscow, saves a lot of time.Due its size, covers almost every corner of Moscow.There are some (older) stations that look like a museums;5;June 27, 2018
Not as impressive as I had expected;Had always heard the Moscow metro was one of its kind.But most stations are average, though clean.A must thoughbis the one woth all the statues of people throughba Soviet ideological theme. You will see some sculptures eroded as it is Russian tradition to touch a nose od a dog or some other parts of people and object, and make a wish. No doubt, a unique metro station in the world.;4;June 26, 2018
Impressive!;We did this as part of a walking tour with Moscow Private Tours. You absolutely can do on your own as the metro system is very easy to use. I'd recommend googling which stations are prettiest so you know which to stop at. Unfortunately, as we did this with a tour, I do not know off hand. Some are much more beautiful than others.;5;June 26, 2018
Easy and hassle free;55rub 1 way and anyway it was hassle free and the fastest way to get around. Even from the outer circle to the main areas was like 30mins max. Use the metro app for convienience.;5;June 26, 2018
Great Infrastructure;One of the best developed underground train networks in the world. A lot of it built prior and straight after the war, the subway has stood the test of time. Stations are lavishly decorated. You could do a self guided tour by researching some of the better looking stations. The metro is extremely easy to navigate.;5;June 25, 2018
You simply can't go to Moscow without visiting the Metro!;I have seen metros and subways throughout the world, so I was perhaps a bit skeptical when our tour led us into the metro. I was simply speechless when I saw the artwork, the bronze statues, the tile work. If it weren't for the trains, you would think you were in an art museum.;5;June 25, 2018
#MeTro;Moscow's underground must be one of the best in the world. If London discovered discovered it, Moscow perfected it. Line 1 is a veritable art gallery/museum/Russian history lesson in itself. In Moscow, buy a Troika card and cover the entire public tranport system in one. Excellent value and preferred by Muscovites!;5;June 25, 2018
Excellent;Fast, convenient, inexpensive, clean, great connecting stations, easy to understand and navigate. Why try to get around in the very heavy traffic of Moscow when you can take the Metro.;5;June 25, 2018
Best metro system I've experienced;The Moscow metro system is super efficient. Trains come every 1 to 2 minutes. Stations and trains are high capacity and many of the stations are works of art in their own right. The single fare from anywhere to anywhere is 55 Roubles. Download the Yandex metro app and finding your way around is easy. Just watch out for stations where you can change lines. The station will have a different name depending on the line - the app makes this easy to follow.;5;June 25, 2018
Easy to use;Highly recommended when traveling around Moscow. Tickets available from machines with multiple languages or ticket offices. One ticket per journey no matter how many stops or interchanges required. Each ticket about 50 pence. You can buy a card with 20 tickets and hand it over to your companion once pass the barrier , sharing the pass using one ticket each.   Maps are easy to follow , similar arrangement to the London Underground system. There may be a lengthy walk between platforms at interchange stations, but it’s well signposted and all underground. Top tip ....I’m sure you’ve heard of the beauty of the decor ... so I’ll only say that the brown (circle) line has the most elaborate station decor so it’s worth taking a round trip , jump off at each platform and back on the next train.  Takes about an hour , cost one ticket .;5;June 25, 2018
Nice 👍🏼;One of the good metro system I ever visited. Most of the metro stations is like a museum. Very clean , on time , very friendly staff, well organized. Old but really loved it . Very reasonable price, connecting to all over the destination in Moscow;5;June 25, 2018
Beautiful;We had been advised to take a tour of the metro stations which we did relying on the suggested route in our guide book. Not only are some of the stations very attractive the actual metro runs very frequently with an extremely short time between trains.;5;June 25, 2018
Nice!;Nice metro stations. Clean and the rides are very smooth.I enjoyed the rides and the different decorated stations.Good thing is that you can see the metro stations while visiting different attractions.;3;June 24, 2018
Nice architecturally and very clean as well;Rode it while in Moscow during the World Cup.  Would recommend learning the Russian alphabet prior to visiting, otherwise its a little tricky deciphering the subway map.;4;June 24, 2018
Possibly one of the best metros in the world;Once you figure out where you want to go, the metro is great. It gets you everywhere, is super clean and quite pretty and finally really cheap.  Great way to get around.;5;June 24, 2018
Spend your day underground!;You can literally spend your entire day just riding the subway, and learning about the distinct character of every station.  I loved the long escalator rides that descended deep into the earth.  From a functional standpoint, the metro is convenient and gets you to any point in the city with ease.;5;June 24, 2018
Amazing!;I got fascinated with Moscow metro since I've read "Metro 2033". Every station is different and most of them are a piece of art. You could easily spend a whole day by only riding metro from station to station.Apart from the beauty of station its a great mean of tranaport as trains ride very often (every 90 seconda);5;June 24, 2018
Great way to travel round the City;No tourist trip to Moscow is complete without a tour of some of the famous Metro stations.  Tickets cost just 55 roubles irrespective of distance travelled; as long as you don’t leave a station you can travel all day, swapping lines and travelling as far as you want.Tickets can be bought from machines or a staffed ticket booth that most stations appear to have. You touch your ticket on the reader as you enter the metro (just like the London tube)  but you don’t need it after that as you don’t need to touch out.  Train announcements are now given in English as well as Russian making travel easy for non-Russian speakers.During the day central trains arrive every 20 seconds! So you need to be speedy in alighting or getting off.The only difficulty we had was as reading the very small English station names on our tube map! A small magnifying glass sorted this ;5;June 24, 2018
Moscow Metro;This is one of the oldest but efficient metro Network connecting almost all corners of the Moscow City . Yandex Metro has more than 10 different lines & all are interconnected to move across the city. Sometimes one will find the underground stations too deep in comparison to other metros . However the escalator & the speed will take care of it. The rates are quite reasonable & the service is also very frequent. Good Public Transport System for the people & we could see that it is very user friendly & people uses it heavily. Recommended;4;June 24, 2018
Museums all around the city;A tour in Moscow museum metro stations is a no-miss while in town. Nice, inspiring and so different from a station to another.;5;June 24, 2018
Easy to ride for English travelers;The metro is very easy to ride. The kiosk are in English and each ride is 55 rubles. The train is clean and comfortable.;5;June 23, 2018
Loved using the metro;Once you get your bearings very easy to use and loved the grandeur of the platforms and stations. The trains themselves are nothing special.;5;June 22, 2018
World cup;Hi this is rasool from iran I had great trip in Russia in world cup tournament. Try red square an Cermline palace;5;June 22, 2018
Not bad;Good for those who enjoy art and designs.  With many classic design and drawing around - it is certainly a must for those who are artistic and enjoy such drawing.;3;June 22, 2018
Probably the most visited and best connected "Museum" ;-);Moscow Metro is in deed an attraction you mustn't miss to see and use when visiting this city. It isn't comparable to the Parisian Metro or London Underground with its chandeliers, portraits of former communist leaders, art nouveau and art deco pieces and simply just by the luxury of some stations. This wasn't only built to get used but to show how beautiful useful buildings could be done. Grab a ticket for less than a Euro/USD and enjoy your ride - hop off where you like, get on again, etc. as you only pay once to get into the metro system, and enjoy!;5;June 22, 2018
Overall clean and definate must to check out and use.;I was crunched for time on my visit, but tne stations I did see were very nice. They were kept clean and security everywhere. A lot of pics can be taken and most of the stations. But just be ready for the tourist rubbing the statues, and they will cause a traffice jam.;4;June 22, 2018
Built with love.. so pretty and convenient;The metro stations in Moscow are surely worth a visit though not all. There are several on the brown line route no. 5 that are very pretty. The platform and area around has great wall art and ceiling arts. Nothing special on the outside of station so you can just hop off the train and check out the area near platform and get back in next train in another 6 minutes. They also have very very very long escalators.;5;June 21, 2018
Amazing,;This amazing system is 365 miles, 210 stations and eight million travellers a day! Yet it is palatial, and immaculate!;5;June 21, 2018
Best metro;Every time then I visit metro I am be pleased by it's  amazing architecture. I prefer stations of round like.;5;June 21, 2018
Breath Taking Veiw;I must say Moscow metro is famous for its architecture & every corner of metro is place to take photo but I guess its not allowed. Way amazing celling & corners a decorated. a must visit.;5;June 21, 2018
Easy to get around;The metro is very well designed and marked. It’s easier to find your way around specially if you know what line and stop to go.;5;June 20, 2018
The BEST Metro stations in the World;In term of Decoration, Moscow's Metro is the BEST and most opulent decorated. Built before the WWII, very deep under the surface, deeper than the London Tube. Many have decoration like palace interior, nothing like that in other cities of the world.;5;June 20, 2018
Majestic, Marvellous and Hides so many stories;Not your usual modern day metro, and is very ad-free and instructions-free. The opposite to a Dubai metro, this one has so much history and was built by iconic 20th century soviet architectures and artists.;5;June 20, 2018
So quick;Everything so well organized, you could see signs everywhere, on walls, on floors and in the air.  In the trains can you see where you are and how many places are within each train.;5;June 20, 2018
Easy to use;Very simple map that you get easily familiar with. Download the app and you will find it easier specially for the names. Beautiful stations, a must see.;5;June 20, 2018
Scale is large;Some of the trains are like hundred years old and noise level is dangerous for your hearing. On the other hand some of the trains are very smooth and new.;3;June 19, 2018
Marvels of Mosco Metro;All cities have their "Must See" places. One such place is Moscow is the Metro. Several walking tours are available, so you will not have a problem finding one to meet your time and budget, However, the best way to se it is to just load up a transit ticket and climb on board, getting off at selected stations. There are the art deco stations you se in the guide books, and they are a marvel. Each is different with their own special feel. But, the stations I found to be the most fun were the non-descript ones, More specifically, the neighborhoods above the stations are places to see. Neighborhoods define cities and the culture in each can be strikingly different. Warning: be careful on which trans to select. You may take one two stops, get of, cross over to go back the other way - to where you started. You may find yourself miles away because you got on the wrong train. Of course, that is part of the fun - getting lost!;4;June 19, 2018
A train runs every 90 seconds;TAke the time during your Moscow visit to get on and of and on and off and on and off the subways just to see the stations.  They are more ornate and elegantly decorated than is to be believed/;4;June 19, 2018
Beautiful Metro stations;One of the fastest way to move about in Moscow is undoubtedly the metro. With five different lines and trains arriving every 90 seconds. Names of the stations are not written in English making it a bit difficult but we managed with the help of a metro map printout which had names in English as well. Most trains have announcements in English about the next station. A few of the stations are breathtakingly beautiful, a must see if you are in Moscow. One ticket is for 45 rubles and valid for 90 minutes.;5;June 19, 2018
Amazing;Brow line are amazing of metro every station when the raining please make this on you plan and see maybe haft days not was enough.;5;June 19, 2018
Model for the World to Emulate;The world can learn from the Clean and Beautiful stations. The 2 minutes interval for train makes it so convenient. One feels so SAFE travelling on the Moscow Metro. No Vagrant or suspicious characters as there are obvious presence of Police ensuring;5;June 19, 2018
Nice Metro Station;The Moscow Metro is one of the most organized and beautiful metro stations in the world, get anywhere in minutes between very educated and polite people.;5;June 19, 2018
Very efficient;This is the way tp travel around Moscow it's fast cheap and extremely efficient. Also when you are in the metro stations look around as the walls and ceilings have wonderful art on them.;5;June 19, 2018
Moscow Metro;Metro of Moscow, Just Amazing..Require 2 full day to Visit Metro of Moscow & it’s World’s Best..!! Must Visit Place ..!!!;5;June 18, 2018
A MUST VISIT;I actually lived in Moscow for 12 yrs so used the metro extensively, I also love photography and so many metro stations are works of Art that simply should not be missed, probably the next choice after Red Sq for a visit. very cheap compared to other major capital cities and also very reliable with not long to wait between trains. The BEST way to get around Moscow, as the traffic is one of the worst certainly in Europe. The passages leading down to the stations are lined with kiosks which sell everything. Also very important, very safe, so dont worry;5;June 18, 2018
Integral part of life;As it expands more into all the parts of the city the long-planned second ring started to take form.If you are in Moscow only for a few hours - take a chance to look at the ring stations as one of the oldest and, may be , most impressive. But if you are staying longer - come visit green station Trubnaya, literary themed ones - Chekhovskaya, Pushkinskaya, Turgenevskaya, and some newest ones in the suburbs. Anyone who needs a reliable quick way to get someplace should use metro in Moscow.;5;June 18, 2018
Moscow Metro;Moscow has some beautiful metro stations. The old trains are rickety and its fun to ride them. The new ones are sophisticated with interesting/ informative write ups on the bogey walls. The stations too are a delight, each one having a distinct style. Some of them were designed to work as bunkers in the event of a war!;5;June 18, 2018
Great Metro system!!;I have been visiting a client regularly in Moscow for seven years.  The Metro is easy for visitors to use.  Now approaching stops are communicated in both Russian and English!.  Additionally many of the stops are quite lovely to explore and take pictures of.  There is not a better architectural metro experience in the world!  On one Saturday in the winter -25 C above ground I spent the day touring metro stops.  Highly recommend this if your in town for a while.  Additionally it's cheap, one way price is $1.73 (US). You can go as many stop as necessary - only pay a second fare if you come above ground...  If your just sight seeing metro stations you only pay one fare....;5;June 18, 2018
Each station;It is amazing, each station seems to me a art gallery, it is very beautiful and full of history, they say they were made tone nuclear shelters is is very beautiful but now easy to get around as the language is very difficult and is hard to find someone that speaks English, but Russian people are nice and always try to help;5;June 18, 2018
A must;Take some Stopp during your visit!!! Like a museum!!! Best you take a Lokal guide to show you the very best;5;June 17, 2018
Reliable and quick;The metro system in Moscow is incredible! It is reliable and there are train every 2-3 minutes. Stations had signs in English and made it tourist friendly. Some stations have art on the walls and are quite beautiful.;5;June 17, 2018
Must see!;A very civilized experience transportation-wise, and an enriching 2-hour excursion where tons of Russian and soviet history are recorded in most beautiful walls, mosaic, murals and lamps!;5;June 17, 2018
Old world war 2 bunkers;The metro reminded me of London metro with more architectural flair. Many of the old metro stations were used as bunkers and an infirmary during the last world war.Today it is how moscow gets around. Maps are all in russian alphabet so know where you are going. Trains are frequent and on time.Several stations have art and statues and it is customary to rub the nose of the dog.Trains were clean and people were nice and I felt completely safe day and night.;5;June 17, 2018
2nd Time in Moscow and the Metro is still fantastic;Moscow has a fantastic system of underground trains, when we change lines there did not seem to be kilometres to walk like in other City of the world. The trains are clean and comfortable and the stations range from austere to magnificent.;5;June 17, 2018
Oh my!;What’s not to like? Trains are extremely punctual, it’s clean, some stations are like museums and it’s very affordable. I’m from New York so I’m extremely jealous!;5;June 15, 2018
very nice, fast,clean, but with the old compositions of the wagon,a large number of passengers who have to go in or out;take care of your personal issues, save the camera because it has pictures to do, it is a pleasure to see what a metro was made so many years ago;4;June 15, 2018
cheap, well run, 60s feeling, fast escalator;Must try the metro once and look at the architecture. It takes a good 2 minutes to go down by escalator and make sure to hold the railings (I was kind of scared). It seems like it goes down forever. The train itself is not busy and written in English so easy to navigate. You will not get lost. There were no weird people there too.;4;June 14, 2018
Useful and majestic;Hard to not notice the architecture in some of the stations, make some tease arch online to find the pretty ones, but this place is not only useful, it’s also classy;5;June 14, 2018
Stunning Museums Underground;We highly recommend hiring a guide to take you through the Moscow Metro Experience.  We had the pleasure of navigating its fantastic stops with Natalia of Meridian Moscow.  She pointed out, interpreted, and explained the history, medium and genre behind the beautiful art at many stations.  We had the pleasure of traveling a lot of the city in this underground museum.;5;June 13, 2018
Pretty cool;I love using the Moscow metro! The architecture is amazing and each station is unique! The trains run pretty often but I would stay away from peak times;4;June 13, 2018
Metro very efficient and amazing architecture;We decided to jump on the Metro at Red square and travelled on the brown circle line and just jumped off each station for a look.;4;June 13, 2018
Big system with beautiful stations;Abit hard to learn then system for a tourist on a short visit, not all signs are in english. But for sure the most beautiful stations i ever seen. Atleast the old ones, they also have alot of differt metro trains, mixed old and new ones.;4;June 13, 2018
Amazing and must see!!;Metro stations to see: mayakivskaya, komsomolskaya, novoslobodskaya, prospect mira, belorusskaya, kiyevskaya, taganskaya, paveletskaya. No tour needed. Just grab a day pass and go through it yourselves. The people are amazing in letting you know where to go!;5;June 13, 2018
Metro tour;We did our own metro tour as one of the highlight of our Moscow trip and it was wonderful.  Basically one can start clockwise on the brown line from Mayalovskaya. key stop area.Kyevskaya   b.Komsomolskayac.Prospekt Mirad.NovoslobodskayaJust for 55 rubles, one can see so muchEnjoy.;5;June 13, 2018
One of the best in the world;Moscow metro is very clean & well maintained though it's been one of the oldest metro system in the world.Most of the metro stations are wonderfully decorated and actually look like art galleries. The metro system is well linked almost all the corners of the city of Moscow and its all the major railway terminals. Further,traveling by metro in Moscow will be a good solution to avoid city traffics and also to avoid paying more on uber or other taxi services. Oneway ticket is just RUB 55 & there are many more option to select depending on your way of traveling.Only disadvantage is that there is no much english signages in metro system and you have to be at least bit familiar with Russian Cyrillic alphabet to find out destinations. Anyway lines are numbers,therefore it is easy to located the line at the interchange stations. Moscow metro and metro stations are one of the must-do in Moscow actually!;5;June 12, 2018
Do nt go to Moscow without doing the Metro;Amazing some of these subways were built in 1934 and the marble and mosiacs. Wonderful We did a guided tour with a private guide cost around $200 for 2 hours;4;June 12, 2018
Marvellous metro stations;First opened in 1935, Moscow metro has one of its kind wonderful stations having arched entrances, beautiful paintings and chandeliers. Kiyevskaya is one of the beautiful, must visit metro stations.;5;June 12, 2018
Pieces of Art, each one for itself;The Metro stations of Moscow show us, how traveling by public transportation does not have to be a dull or even insecure deal, but can actually make your daily commute a sophisticated museum visit. The stations are typically themed in the manner that the stations is named after. In this logic you can find stations that put emphasis on technology, the arts, the people or other subjects and incorporate the theme into the interior design. I really do regret not having done a guided tour through these, as simply looking at the stations is a treat itself, but it would have been nice to find out a little more about the background;5;June 11, 2018
A museum or a subway?;What a surprise, the metro isn't just a metro, it's an art museum.  The design is unique at every stop and the mosaics on the ceiling are fantastic.  Of course, it's also efficient, inexpensive and clean, but make sure you look around wherever you stop because it's so much more!;5;June 10, 2018
Not to be missed;The Moscow metro is a convenient way to get around a city that is clogged with traffic. At 55 rubles per trip it is also cost effect. Signs are in Latin script as well as Crylic so easy to navigate.This metro is a sightseeing trip in its own right, beautifully decorated and ornate platforms from the soviet era.;5;June 10, 2018
A must see;Cheap to buy a one ticket journey to see the splendour that is found underground.  It makes the London Underground look dull!;5;June 9, 2018
Super Efficient and Fabulous;The best way to enjoy the city of Moscow is through their vast inter linked network of metro. Very frequent,economical and very clean , its the best way to explore the various monuments, parks and sites of this beautiful city.;5;June 9, 2018
Waste of time;Our tour of the Moscow metro was a waste of 30+ minutes. It's very stressful to try to get on and off subway cars with 30 people successfully. Then trying to take pictures of the different stations with kim leaders trying to push you out of their way. I could've skipped this.;2;June 9, 2018
Beautiful stations - no English signs;We were fascinated by the great service of the trains and the beautiful stations. The only major problem- no signs in English-language and that is a problem for tourists.....;4;June 9, 2018
The most beautiful metro of the World?;Moscow metro is considered by many as the most beautiful metro of the World. It was one of the most ambitious projects of Soviet era. The stations had beautiful architectural designs with high ceiling halls decorated with chandeliers and decorated lights. Deep underground locations of some stations were also designed to serve as a nuclear attach shelter during the cold war era.As of May 2018, Moscow metro has 14 lines with more that 200 stations and a length of more than 350 kms. Despite the preparation for the upcoming World cup soccer, the maintenance of the metro didn't appear up to the mark to the author. Directions often only in Russian is another problem for the international tourists.;4;June 9, 2018
beautiful;Such an artistic metro, very appealing stations. Mayakovskaya and Kiyevskaya are the most beautiful ones;5;June 9, 2018
Moscow metro tour;On a rainy day we did the moscow metro Tour. The Tour starts at komsomolskaya and ends at park pobedy. Because you never leave the stations, it Will only cost you 55 roubles in Total.  Take your time, we spend approx. 3 hours underground. The Tour Will take you for an overview of moscow’s most interesting and impressive metro stations.;5;June 9, 2018
Research before you use the Metro;Moscow Metro is brilliant if U know what you're doing.  You should research how to use it prior to travelling.  Print out a map with large writing on it, the light in the Metro is not so good and most of the hotel maps are way to small to read, especially if you're over 50.I have been to Moscow many times and can say that the facilities to cater to those with luggage has improved.Buying tickets from machines can be challenging, best to get them from an attended office.  Make sure you have Roubles when you arrive.;5;June 8, 2018
Fast transport;We took a ride on the Moscow Metro to see some of the stations and to take photos of same. We went 7 Station, the trains are very fast and come every 10 minute, you must enter and exit very quickly and you must be forceable doing it do it and enjoy.;4;June 8, 2018
Beautiful;Most of the stations are really nice. Interesting to note that many locals are sentimental and very fervently touch some of the statues especially in ploschad revolutsii. There is a statue of a soldier with his dog and everyone touches the dogs snout lovingly as they pass by even in their hurried pace. Mayakovskaya is also very nice. The metro stations in St Petersburg are also worth seeing.;5;June 8, 2018
The most beautiful metro in the wirkd;Very nice and clean and very easy to move. Stations named by English as well and very easy to access and move inside. Saving much time to move by metro!;5;June 8, 2018
dostoevkya station;this has pictures from the Crime and Punishment piece and the actual moment of killing the old land with an axe;5;June 8, 2018
Nice tour to kick-off your trip to Moscow;Really nice way to start the trip. The guide gave the introduction on how to use Moscow metro efficiently, showed us some of the nicest stations and told their history and purpose. Really cool!;5;June 8, 2018
WoW;This is actually one of the most beauty and clear metro compare to New York, London and Greece. Really easy to reach any point in Moscow. It's a pleasure to travel with this metro every metro-station is different, just when is business hours it's crowded but this is only when everyone is going or leaving work ... Still i'ts better than others.;5;June 7, 2018
One of the best in the world;All the inner circle stations are iconic....beautifully designed. Must take a short tour of 6-7 stations. Lot of history well preserved.;5;June 7, 2018
Art in the Metro;A visit to Moscow is not complete with seeing the magnificence of the art work in different metro stations. Each station has a different theme as well as a different style of presentation. The station has a series of paintings, mosaics or sculptures. There would be up to hundred good sized examples of art work in each station. One for example had a series of sculptures all in dark material representing many different roles of the Russian worker eg soldier, fisherman etc. Another station had paintings of rural scenes with the different crops, animals and people who worked the farms. There is always a Russian leader eg Lenin often included in a scene. The work was created around the 1920s and the whole feel from the beautiful lights and railings reflects the elegance of the art of the time. One of the most amazing sights I have seen. It is cheap and efficient to travel from station to station to views these wonders as the line is circular. Trains run every minute in peak hour.;5;June 7, 2018
A real experience.;we enjoyed this very much. A guide pointed out so much to us and this really brought the tour to life. The Moscow metro is unlike anywhere else and a unique experience. Highly recommended.;5;June 5, 2018
Unbelievable;It was only by chance that I heard about the stunning designs of the Moscow metro stations.  They're amazing, like ballrooms and grand plazas.  What a change from the dismal London tube system.  Another amazing thing is that there are no adverts anywhere.  Great business opportunity here!!;5;June 5, 2018
Amazing;We had a guided tour for 3 hours in the metro. Every station has something different to show. It is clean and well keept. People use it very much because traffic is terrible. So take your time and go from one station to another for the fun of a life museum.;5;June 5, 2018
Punctual.Fast.Beautiful;Moscow metro is an EXTRAORDINARY!Beautiful interior station. Punctual and fast i.e the interval between trains around 2 to 5 min. To use the metro, you can buy the transport card with refundable deposit, as you will get the cheapest fare i.e. 36 rubel per trip. The best thing is you can conveniently share the card with your friends as you are only required to tap when you enter the gate.;5;June 4, 2018
beautiful!;i like "Vorobievi gori" station because train stop above the river with amazing view to the city and main park! Nice to go out and walk looking at the best green area of Moscow!;5;June 4, 2018
Underground architectural beauty;Hopped on and off 5 stations - Komsomolskaya,Novoslovodskaya, Belorussia, among others.  Stunning artistry / applied art in such a common public space.  Quite a challenge to get around though because of the language barrier. Do your homework before going to the metro, and familiarize yourself with Russian alphabet.;5;June 4, 2018
Not your usual concrete metro station;The Moscow Metro stations are incredible. The aesthetic is more like that of an art gallery than a transport station. Very grand and majestic. It can be challenging to use the metro to someone not familiar with the cyrillic alphabet but it's easy enough to pick up.;5;June 4, 2018
Fast-Efficient-Clean-Safe;Have taken the Metro a few times this trip. Fun going up or down the escalator. Parts of it have statuary from the revolution.Didn’t see any graffiti. The place is clean and we were impressed with the architecture.;5;June 3, 2018
Incredible detailing - but crowded;The Chandeliers are quite stunning. The stain glass windows are also surreal.Its very pictureques.A bit crowded , as people actually use the metro a lot, but that also adds to the “real experience” of it all.A must do if you are visiting.;4;June 3, 2018
Loved it;Really interesting tour around some of the unique stations of the Moscow metro. A must do on any visit;5;June 2, 2018
underground palace;This is one of the best metro systems of the world, and undoubt the most beautiful, in each station you can see pieces of russian history. Is a must do the metro tour throug this statosn when you visit Moscow and is very economic (just the ticket value) .;5;June 2, 2018
Metro;Every station is different and all decorated well. Unless your a metro geek it's worth seeing a few. But there are so many to recommend. Just be aware that they get very busy and definitely don't go to them during rush hours.And during the winter months they get busy to get out of the cold and snowy conditions.;5;June 2, 2018
like a museum;It looks like an old museum designed under the city of Moscow.Be sure to experience traveling in Moscow with the subway. The names of the stations are written in Russian and you must help the people but it is not hard to find the way . By Google, you will simply find the stations.The cost per person is 50 rubles.;5;June 2, 2018
Beautiful!;The metro system in Moscow is superb! the architecture is something to be seen yourself - out of this world.;5;June 1, 2018
Metro brushed up for Football Cup;Lucky football fans, they travel for free! I was passing the pay-gates in the morning – already they had installed a special passage saying “Welcome! Fan Id = Free ride”.Another innovation – the toilets! The passengers have been lobbying the Moscow city council for years to set up toilets at least in the central stations, looks like the anticipated crowds of World Cup fans had made it :)Maps and signs everywhere – how to get to the Red Square in the central stations, and how to get anywhere around in bedroom districts. (By the way, some of the new stations are no less  stunning, than the famous old ones within the Garden Ring)Muscovites are already well accustomed to having free WI-Fi – both metro and ground transport. Look up the metro’s site to see how it works – I don’t use it, so can’t help here :))The latest news, introduced last week, is actually… news. Can’t say about other metro lines, my red line had TV-receivers in all metro cars, they show the latest news. So far Russian only. And, of course, the metro now speaks English – from the station announcers to the cashiers selling the transportation card. I wonder when I’ll have any other world capital speak my language…;5;June 1, 2018
A tourist attraction in their own right;The various metro stops were a point of pride when built. They are clean, bright,t well-maintained, and each is different. You can, however, tell the difference between those built when Stalin was the boss, and afterwards. The Stalin-era statiosn are ornate, sometimes eye-poppingly so. the later ones are architectural marvels, but not nearly so ornate.I spent a day doing nothing but the metro. Get on, go to the next station, get out, walk around, take pics, then get on and on to the next one. As a bad-weather-day in Moscow, that's cheap entertainment.;5;May 31, 2018
amazing;the decoration is fantastic never seen a metro so ornate statues ceiling paintings and wall paintings quite impressive;4;May 31, 2018
Excellent Connectivity;I rode the metro at least 4-5 times. It was never late by a second. The stations look like underground palaces. The bogeys look old in some lines but are comfortable to ride. Great infrastructure.;5;May 31, 2018
these metro stations are amazing;unfortunately we only had a short time to see some of the stations underground but what we saw were absolutely amazing.the artwork and statutes in such public places has to seen to be believed.highly recommend that seeing these stations is on your itinerary.;5;May 31, 2018
Beautiful and historic;Be sure to tour the metro and have someone to explain the history of each station. You have never seen such a beautiful metro....;5;May 30, 2018
Beauty in the Metro Stations;Lovely art work in the stations we visited.  I especially liked the statues and the overall design.  Fast and efficient method of travel;4;May 30, 2018
nice artwork;We took a 2-3 hour tour of the metro, hopping on and off the different lines and admiring the art work and learning about history.  It costs 55 Rubles per ride (or 28 Rubles if you buy 11+ rides) regardless of the number of stops.  You only have to wait approximately 1 minute 30 seconds for the next train.  That is amazing for someone who lives in Southern California and has to wait 45 minutes+ for most forms of public transit.  Lenin ordered for the station to be built with marble and granite and filled with artwork.  One station has mosaics, another station has bronze statues, another has stain glass windows, etc.  Definite an interesting tour.;4;May 29, 2018
Must see and try;This is really "must see" - most of the stations are exceptional. All are spacious, travel is comfortable. Most messages are in Russian and English. Very easy to navigate through the metro;5;May 29, 2018
Moscow Metro;There are many rankings regarding which station is the most beautiful in Moscow. Each one can make its own ranking, since taste differs from person to person. My favorite is the Maiakovskaya Station for its elegance.;5;May 28, 2018
Go Underground in Moscow;The Moscow Metro is a must.  The trains are nothing special except for the fact that they travel at a great speed (don't try standing up when the train is in motion!). It is the stations which are breathtakingly beautiful.  Almost cathedral-like in some places.  We had a very experienced guide who was able to explain the significance of the decor and statues - and to prevent us from getting lost!   Although it is quite easy to follow.  Don't go during rush hours as you will miss much;5;May 28, 2018
Grandeur underground;When I first was told of the Moscow underground, one thinks dirty, rat infested, stinky holes with metro trains rocketing thru darkened tunnels transporting humans from A to B...It’s not until you start the decline on one of the many 400 odd stepped escalators.Down down down..It then opens up to grandeur.. painted period walls, old style lighting and every station is different.. giving flare and an almost pompous display of regal..When in Moscow take a look, even if it’s a couple of stops... you will be surprised..St Petersburg has the same and one of the longest escalators in Russia as well..I’m no trainspotter but it adds quirk to your daily commute that only Moscowans know as normal..;4;May 28, 2018
The best looking metro stations;Several of the metro stations are particularly worth a visit - fine marble in Mayakovskaya , proletarian propaganda in Komsomolskaya, nice frescoes and paintings in several other stations on line 5.;5;May 27, 2018
A subterranean delight.;Purchase a ticket for a ridiculously small amount and hop on.The ticket allows you to get on and off as many times at wonderful stations as you like.  Had enough? Go out the gate and see the sunshine.But not before you explore.  Get a map and preferably a guide to the stations and go for the stations that connect.  Hopping from one line to another is really easy.  All of the stations are different, all are good and if you miss a train there is another in two minutes or less.  Some trains are less modern, all are noisy, and it's safe and easy.;5;May 27, 2018
Easy , quick anf confortable;Easy , quick anf confortablesave many time  , it is also cheaprecommend to buy Troika ticket - upload money for rides and each ride to one way cost 36 rub. instead of 55 rub. it worth it.this card can be used in the busses as well.;5;May 27, 2018
Best of the best;Moscow metro is what public transport should be.  Affordable reliable safe clean efficient.  Recommend to get a Troika card from the ticket office, it works like Oyster card in London, a ticket that you keep and just top up when needed from self service machine.  it can be used in all public transport.  500 ruble should be enough for a week.  The metro charges flat fee - 55 ruble per ride regardless which stop you go; 36 ruble per ride if using Troika card.  The metro stations are full of security and police, ventilation was good, temperature was comfortable, well signed with English translation and English station announcement in train. No need to run if you miss a train, there is a train arriving at every minute on all lines.  The metro system is very easy to navigate. It is super efficient.  The interior design is exquisite.  You don’t need to get out the stations, the most beautiful design is on the platforms and transit corridors.  Just hop in and out the trains to check out the stations.;5;May 25, 2018
Gorgeous!;These are the most gorgeous metro stations I have ever see in any major world city. They are also very efficient. Do not miss the Metro tour.;5;May 25, 2018
One of the best metro system;One of the best metro system of the world and the sixth longest  with 214 stations till now.The only problem is that there are no english in the stations and you can't find your route quickly.Great secutity control;4;May 25, 2018
Wow!;A must visit place. Try to get down on all the stations. They have different paintings and sculptures which make it worthwhile to spend sometimes;5;May 25, 2018
Moscow metro: realization of a soviet myth;The most beautiful metro in the world. We can not forget the splendid architecture of Komsomolskaya, Plochtchad Revoliutsii, Mayakovskaya stations.Also very safe. Don't be afraid, here your risks are pratically null.;5;May 25, 2018
Fantastic way around Moscow;At only US50 cents for an unlimited single journey on the Metro makes it great value for money. But for that price you also get access to a wonderful museum of early 20th Century Russian architecture/engineering design. It’s well worth reading up on the relevance of the many portraits, sculptures and designs across the various stations before going so you fully appreciate them Apart from being cheap and of enormous architectural significance, the Metro is also amazingly efficient - running trains every 45-60 seconds at rush hour - the best mass-public transport system I’ve experienced globally, and a really pleasant way to navigate Moscow !;5;May 23, 2018
Well worth a visit;The top ten stations on the Moscow Metro are a must. They are all very diffirent and well worth a visit.;5;May 23, 2018
Stalin's pride and joy - the modern Metro;Do not miss the Moscow Metro, arm yourself with a map, get a ticket out of the machine at the entrance (you can tap in your credit card) The machine disgorges a smart card which you tap on the entrance gate. You can get cards for one or two journeys, about £1.30 for two journeys. If there are two of you, tap the card, go through and hand the card back for your companion. Once inside you have the freedom of the Metro. Do be warned that interchanges between lines are mostly like Bank/Monument in London or Les Halles in Paris, the interchange can be between two completely different stations. There is everything here for the architecture buff, from Socialist Realism (Tractor Drivers' Brigade mosaic at Kievskaya) to elegant art deco and chrome (Mayakovskaya). Not to be missed.;5;May 23, 2018
A beauty in itself;Incredible architecture, beautiful designs. Keep one day for the metro sight seeing as you can see a lot, view from the bridge is also great.;5;May 22, 2018
Metro tour delightful;An interesting and exciting tour of 7 metro stations in Moscow. Excellent architecture coupled with stories about each station. Where was Stalin, how he was removed and the result.;5;May 22, 2018
Smolenskya n park pobedy;The corridors , the buildings and the deep escalator ride..remains etched...Advisable to download the yandex metro app;4;May 22, 2018
Metro 90m underground;Metro is very useful, travels fast, every 2 minutes new one comes, clean, tickets cost 55 Rubels one entrance.Lots of details, waiting can be done in an old soviet metro with soviet sines. Love it!;5;May 22, 2018
totaly amazing;the metro is fast and cost pence to use they are works of art i recommend a tour of the you wot regret it plan your route and you can visit them all on one fare the escalator go deep under groundand there are stairs to negotiate so not set up for wheel chair users, Russia is not disabled set but the Russian people will willingly give up their seat for you on the metro.;5;May 22, 2018
Amazing structure!;Unparalleled! The underground system is huge and looks like a palace. The trains are also very neat and clean.;5;May 22, 2018
The best way to travel in Moscow;The Moscow Metro is undoubtedly one of the highlights of Moscow. For fast, efficient transportation from one point to another or a voyage of discovery to some of the amazing stations, it should not be missed.Information is now generally available everywhere in English. You can buy a single journey ticket or a multi-journey ticket. If you travel just one stop or to the farthest end of the system, you pay the same price!If you hear a train coming, no need to run as the next one will roll into the station within 60 seconds. One of the best metro systems in the world! Enjoy!;4;May 21, 2018
UNBELIEVABLE,,,,;Now,  this  is  a  Metro  that  the  History,  the   Beauty,  the  Riches,  the  Chandeliers,  the  Marbles,  the  Paintings  and  so  many  other  Art  crafts   left  us  Speechless.  A   must  see  to  Appreciate.  I  do  not  believe  there  is   another  Metro  like  this  one.;5;May 21, 2018
Business and leisure;Overall, Moscow is a beautiful city with dynamics culture. Our visits worth every penny. We strong suggest a trip to the Golden Ring - Vladimir and szuda. We got to see life outside of Moscow Ring.;4;May 21, 2018
Explore the secrets that are hidden underground with us.;Don't miss to put in your travelling program " Hop in Hop off metro moscow tour ! Taking the Moscow metro is akin to walking through an impressively beautiful metro station. Must see See Moscow's unique and beautiful metro stations on a 1.5-hour tour of the Soviet palaces that were built for the people. See the marble pillars, stained glass, and ornate sculptures that make the Moscow metro unlike any other metro system in the world.;5;May 21, 2018
Superb!;It takes you everywhere. I traveled with the metro a lot. Besides that it’s really interesting to see all the nice artistic designs;5;May 21, 2018
historic artistic place;awesome arts place, a metro in Moscow really clean, organizer and really interesting to visit to tourist.;5;May 20, 2018
Astoundingly beautiful... and useful;The Metro is a great way to beat the traffic and get around Moscow. It helps to speak a bit of Russian as most signage is not in other languages. However, if you can match words, you'll be fine. The cars are vintage but seem to run well. The stations are simply magnificent. It is worth riding around and getting off at a variety of stops just to see the decor. Each is distinct and a real treasure.;5;May 20, 2018
Tiles;Great place with statues and pictures in tiles. Loud and busy but a must see! Lots of history to see on the walls too. Trains are fairly old but run on time.;5;May 20, 2018
Rolli di Mosca;There is no Moscow without the metro.The underground here is not only a transport, but also the important touristic attraction, architectural sightseeing of the city. The first metro stations are really like the Renaissance Palazzi of Venice, Rome, Florence. The oldest 20 stations can be presented as Rolli di Genova or Via Garribaldi, as they are comparable to palazzi in time, size, purposes. You need to see the interior of each station as the facade of the building, with all its mosaics, frescoes, panels, bas-reliefs, statues, columns, pylons, plafonds, chandeliers and so on - that’s a real Palazzo.Nowhere but in this very underground you can get such impressions and see such sights, but that is not that easy: we need to prepare the rout, the entrance and exit station, take into account artificial light and time of visit (well, the public can be really ungracious).The most important stations, in my opinion are Komsomolskaya (Sokolniki line), Arbatskaya, Ploshchad Revolyutsii, Kurskaya, Semyonovskaya, Sokol, Aeroport, Mayakovskaya, Novokuznetskaya, Kievskaya (Fili line), Avtozavodskaya and the Ring line - Kievskaya, Belorusskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Komsomolskaya, Dobryninskaya and Oktyabrskaya.;5;May 20, 2018
I think you can't visit Moscow without using the Metro;In my opinion Moscow Metro is one of the best things in Moscow. There are a lot of unique stations and unique traings so you can easily spend half a day by visiting different stations if you're into that kind of architecture.;5;May 19, 2018
Excellent Metro;In terms of transportation this beats London and New York. You get charged to enter regardless of where you exit and the cost is nominal which is how public transport should be. Some of the stations are art installations in themselves and rightfully a tourist attraction. Read up, choose the stations you want to see and take your time. Great people watching opportunities;5;May 19, 2018
Truly grand;It makes every other countries metro pale into insignificance.  This is a master piece and the art work in the metro is worth the visit.;5;May 19, 2018
Esplendid;Take in mind that it’s Metro, but even when its crowded, it’s amazing. I booked a tour, just to have de spotlights, but I couldn’t get enough and bought the Troika card with 20 passages to get around the city. Finally, I did my own tour.;4;May 18, 2018
A palace under grounf;Spotlessly clean. Marble floors stairs and ceiling. 60 bronze statues. Beautiful wall murals. The most beautiful underground in the world.;5;May 16, 2018
Unexpected !!;Unexpected beauty deep underground. Metro stations very well designed and kept, so much to see in many stations. Surprised to find them so palatial and meaningful. Used as bunker during the war.;5;May 15, 2018
We did the tour ourselves and it was great;We decided to save a bit of money and did the tour ourselves. We went to the stations we  found as being recommended on the internet as most beautiful and they were indeed great. Maybe it is worth taking a guide if you do not have a ticket and you want to hear the history part as well, but this worked for us. Some of the recommended stations are quite impressive. I think the metro tour is quite a good idea.However, do not expect to have the pictures with the empty stations unless you go very early or very late. During the day the stations are always busy, but impressive nevertheless.;5;May 15, 2018
Metro system excellent;Our hotel was close to the orange line of the Metro and was very easy to find.  With the Metro map it was easy to find place of interest and also the metro is on time and very efficient. For such an old system to work so well and with every station we visited it was very clean.  I can recommend the metro to tourists.  We could not speak or read Russian but we could find our way very easily.;5;May 15, 2018
Metro of Moscow;We did a speedy tour  (young children) with our tour guide Vadim Pavlov.  It was wonderful and so detailed.   Look and see if you can see any of the Metro dogs of Moscow;5;May 15, 2018
Absolute beauty;I have never ever seen more beautiful metro. Every station is different and special. No litters but no mess or rubbish also. It was a pleasant to travel by metro.;5;May 14, 2018
Taste of Moscow;Easy to use but you need to know the Russian name.   Tickets are cheap if for less the 4 people otherwise taxi is resonable.  Taxi fare can be negotiated down.  Some stations were very beautiful;4;May 14, 2018
Over expected;Heard so much about metro stations at Moscow which made me over expected before the trip.Only one of the visited stations was fairly artistic; unsure whether there were other stations like this one that the tour guide did not show us. Nevertheless, had to give credit that they were built long time ago and highly used by commuters.As a mass transit system, Moscow Metro is not among the more comfortable ones; however, in terms of efficiency, they are at a high standard among those that I had experienced.;3;May 14, 2018
Beautiful stalin era construction;The Metros in Moscow served more than one purpose during the cold war -  politburo meetings, and even housing them in case of an attack. We went to mayakovskaya station and it is one of the most beautiful Metros we have been to.;5;May 14, 2018
Metro was amazing;Each stop was an adventure and it felt like visiting a museum. Great price to get around. Very deep underground;5;May 13, 2018
Fastest trains , extraordinary stations;Trains arrive every 90 seconds at each station and move 9 million muscovites daily . They fly through the stations which date from the 1930s . So highly decorated , proudly displaying military and political victories. Sumptuous, beautiful . Everywhere . Quite amazing . Not for the faint hearted . A guide who reads Russian is vital;5;May 13, 2018
Best in the world;There is no doubt about it the Moscow metro is the best in the world. In shear terms of the value of people it moves and the efficiency in which it does it it's incredible. What's even better is that you are transformed into the art world with fantastic works of art and elaborate museum pieses dotted all over the network. Some of the best mwtro stations are:-Mayakovskya Paveletskaya KiyevskayaKomsomolskaya Taganskaya Prospest MiraIf you don't read Russian download the Metro app. Most stations only have Russian Signs, but don't be daunted by this. Tip there are 2 apps. Set one to English and the 2nd to Russian. That way you will be able to read the stations in Russian. WiFi is avaliable although not perfect everywhere so gwt a Russian Sim and login. The metro is busy almost all the time but the best way to see the stations is on a Sunday. By a mwtro card they are incredibly cheap. Best of all is there is only one tarrif of Rubles 35 for traveling everywhere. The outer ring overland trains 'Moscow Central Metro Railway' are also included. Great value for money and a great day out.;4;May 13, 2018
Most beautiful underground transportation system!;When in Moscow, use the Metro. It is better than a museum! Each station is different, and each station is spectacular.;5;May 12, 2018
Jewel;The Moscow Metro is a real jewel. There is an awesome application that works offline that can be useful although it is quite easy to understand. IMPORTANT : When you hear a MAN'S voice in RUSSIAN for next station announcement you are going to the CENTER. When you hear a WOMAN'S voice for next station you are going AWAY from the CENTER. Beautiful Stations are there to make your overall experience even better. Download the app for safety and look both up and down to the floor where you will see the exit, the change of the line etc. And never run if you hear a train leaving. In a minute (literally) there will be another one. Awesome;5;May 11, 2018
Grandiose;If there is a metro that you need to take in your life then take this one. It is a trip in history. !;4;May 11, 2018
Stunning!;Worth a visit on the metro. Go to the top 4 stations, I believe all on the orange line! We found it quite easy to navigate once we knew what direction we were heading in! Stations are stunning and worth looking at;5;May 10, 2018
Endless delight, no matter the weather!;Moscow's metro is a tourist attraction all by itself. As well as being an incredibly convenient way of getting to any key destination that you hav in mind, all the central stations (and many of the suburban ones) are works of art. Highyl recommend hiding from blistering wind, burning sun and snowy blizzards and working your way through the most unusual stations. Just a few of the must see: Ploshchad Revolyutsii, Komsomolskaya (brown cicrle line), Mayakovskaya, Kievskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Arbatskaya (longest station) and, personal minimalist favourite, Kropotkinskaya. The prices are also very pleasing compared to the UK.;5;May 10, 2018
Must visit;Our journey can be a pleasant one they said. Moscow metro proved it right! From the artworks on the platforms to the well planned network, Moscow metro is one of the most attractive amazing feature that one should never miss. The ever lasting escalators are also included !;5;May 9, 2018
A must!;I lived in Buenos Aires, New York and Miano, I can tell you that the system¡as well as the beauty, ¡frequency, information for foreigners makes a pleasure and very easy to visit the lost beautiful stations....;5;May 9, 2018
Subway on Moscow;We took a look on two lines of metro in Moscow (red and green) and could enjoy a memorable scenery of their Stations. All of them I visited very very beautiful... It’s a state of arts, indeed.;5;May 8, 2018
The cleanest and well organised metro ever;no pushing no shoving - real people with manners unlike other metros in the world.  Dont be intimated by the colours and names and all different lines - just breath and take a few minutes to work out the stations we used the first 3 letters since english is a bit limited but we travelled for 7 days using this effective and cleanest metro service ever.  we never waited longer than 2 minutes at any station - its unbelievable!!;5;May 8, 2018
Clean efficient and beautiful;The Metro is clean and in many stations the decor is beautiful , indeed astonishing in some.  The trains are far more frequent than any other metro I ever used. Some are old but if they arrive promptly, are clean and they work that’s enough! It’s cheap and easy to use.;5;May 8, 2018
Superb network;Affordable,  quick, good coverage and amazingly artistic stations and this was from 1950 's is an great feat. Straight lines , circular lines well networked but not very tourist friendly.;5;May 8, 2018
Easy as the London Underground;Beautiful station platform areas on the central stations.The system follows the London metro of colour coded lines and is pretty straight forward.55rbls for one way.About 65p uk. Very efficient.;5;May 8, 2018
Affordable price;Metro of Moscow was very huge and very particular and affordable price about 55 rubles =0.8$ and it was covered any destination in Moscow;5;May 7, 2018
One of the best metro systems in the world;Very efficient. Rarely any disruption. Trains arrive every 30-90 seconds. The quickest way to get around in the city. Coverage is huge.;5;May 7, 2018
Veey efficient but signs could be made easier to read.;Metro works very well l, trains very frequently. Some very interesting and even beautiful stations and everything amazingly clean. The signs are hard to read, and that is not only because they are in Russian; just too much information on each sign. A lot (too much) to take in if you're new to them.;3;May 5, 2018
very good transport;The Moscow Metro is a very good transport around the city. In my opinion the decoration seems too old-fashioned.;4;May 5, 2018
Artistic Metro Stations;Good to visit to experience the Russian way of taking metro. Very crowded so be careful of your personal belongings. Not all stations have nice decor. Please google for list of recommended ones. It is good to buy a day ticket to just travel to a few to take pictures and enjoy the artworks. Some are filled with bronze statues, some filled with paintings, etc. Station names are in Russian language so be very aware of the right station you are visiting - using google translator maybe helpful.;4;May 4, 2018
Most beautiful metro in the world;Looks like a museum. Amazing it was made 100 years ago. So clean, amazingly punctual. Every metro station has a different design;4;May 2, 2018
Unbelievable;I had of course seen metro stations on TV but to see them firsthand is just unbelievable, it’s like going into a 5* hotel. You could go from station to station and just be completely overwhelmed. A definite must for any visitor to Moscow. And of course the service is brilliant, we were told a train every 1 minute 30 seconds and it was true;5;May 1, 2018
unbelievable;This is also one of the must seen attractions in Moscow. You can buy a 3 day ticket just for few euros, and you can travel all day in metro so you can see all the metro stations you want. Every station is different but there are some which are really very nice.;5;May 1, 2018
Best way to navigate the city!;It's amazingly clean, and pretty cheap. It's easy to buy tickets as the machines have an option for English. Worthwhile getting an App/ map that will show you station names in Russian, but we didn't get lost. More modern trains have a moving counter to indicate where you are.;5;May 1, 2018
Moscow Metro Tour;We did the Moscow Metro tour with our guide Elena. She was very knowledgeable, energetic and not to mention humorous. She showed us 8 historically and architecturally rich metro stations. Moscow has one of the prettiest and cleanest metro systems I have seen so far. Many thanks Elena!;4;April 30, 2018
Fast VERY CLEAN efficient;A little daunting to start with but once you get used to the lettering it is great fun, we got lost twice but worked it out in the end. The circle line has some great stations with fascination art work, not to be missed.Don't worry just go for it !!!!!!;5;April 30, 2018
Mind boggling!;I took the Moscow Metro Tour offered by the "Free Moscow Tour" team and was blown away.  Some of the stations are works of art.  Not to be missed.;5;April 30, 2018
Built 100 years ago;How come they managed to build all this deep tunnels with spectacular artistic architecture? Russian amazes me all the time;5;April 29, 2018
Beautiful and efficient;The metro is a great way to explore Moscow, it's cheap and efficient and some of the most beautiful stations you'll see. Beautiful artwork, chandeliers and stained glass work.;5;April 29, 2018
Spectacular stations;We were seasoned travellers after our weeks visit. So easy to understand and loved the 'boss' calling you to work in the city then the 'wife' calling you home for tea!The marble architecture and statues were phenomenal and beautiful. The metro ran every couple of minutes and got us from our hotel to the city in no time;5;April 29, 2018
Truly Amazing;Looks more like a set of interconnected museums than a transportation network. One could easily spend a few hours visiting these metro stations.;5;April 29, 2018
A master piece of Art;If you are visiting Moscow i advise to make a tour in the meteo, you pay only one ticket and you keep visiting different metro stations..;5;April 28, 2018
Short stop;The metro of Moscow is a short stop but necessary as it shows the cultural impact of the soviet era. The architecture and design are a work of art;3;April 28, 2018
Unique & One of Its Own Kind!!;Have seen many metro lines in various countries like London, Dubai, India etc. but this was very special, unique & different.;5;April 28, 2018
On tour;Highly recommend a guided tour of the metro..just wonderful to see.  It has been well preserved...workers have to regularly clean the walls and ceilings.If you are with a guide they will tell you how to catch the various lines and make it simpler for you.;4;April 28, 2018
A highlight of the visit;If your idea of subways comes from New York or London or even Tokyo, Hong Kong or Singapore, you will wonder why the Moscow Metro is part of your tour. Don't miss it. You'll see working subway stations that range from beautiful to inspiring to incredible. Just be careful getting on the trains--the doors close quickly;5;April 27, 2018
Large Subway System with Artwork/Architecture in Stations;Took Metro from Sapsan train station to our downtown hotel to avoid Moscow's horrendous street traffic (saved us a 2 hour drive by bus).Stopped at several stations along the route to check out the artwork and architecture, which was quite impressive.Metro system is HUGE. 13 subway lines and over 300 stations.  About 50 central stations have artwork -- each is different.Over 9 million people ride the Moscow Metro every day, so you can imagine how crowded it gets.  Our guide warned us about pickpockets, so take care to guard your valuables (which probably is good advice in most cities).;4;April 27, 2018
Felt like being at Hogwarts;The metro is really fascinating it seriously felt like something out of Harry Potter. However despite Moscow being a touristic city there is hardly any English signs or info anywhere. We ended up getting lost and we had no clue which metro to take and where to get off but it was fun getting lost and having other lost tourists join in until we formed a lost group of people and than combined our efforts to find our way to the center.;4;April 25, 2018
Crowded;The Metro Stations are all magnificently decorated with different themes.  Unfortunately too crowded to really see;4;April 24, 2018
Unique stations;I was told that every station stop has a unique design/decoration, and I was trying hard to find some similarity in any one of them...lol...no I couldn't!! They are all different. The metro stations that are closer to the touristic centre of Moscow are a worthwhile visit, very interesting architecture.;5;April 24, 2018
Must do;With a morning to kill before leaving this beautiful city we headed off to visit at least two subway stations. Entry was 55 Rubles and that gets you everywhere -amazing value. We spent 2 hours cruising the railway network and found some fantastic stations to photograph. Note- Lonely Planet has stations listed in Russian but all stations listed as Cyrillic so the book is not that good. We’ve done HongKong on the MTR so weren’t panicked by the shear numbers of peopleSearch around the station for signs on the pillars, go by coloursGreat times;4;April 24, 2018
Beautiful - and announcements in English;Moscow metro is easy to master once you've looked at the maps and worked out the various lines.Directions to the platforms are on the floor as well as above and the stations are all clean and majestic.Easy to buy tickets from the machines or from the manned kiosks. If you are there for a while buy a Troica card to load up credit (like New York or DC). Only 55 RU per trip.Stations are marked in Russian and English inside the cars but not outside but all in car announcement are made in English and Russian - you can feel like you are in London !You need a ticket to enter via turnstiles but you just walk out - you can literally have one ticket and travel to all the stations !Such a pleasure to travel.;5;April 23, 2018
Moscow metro;First I must tell you that I have been lost on the underground in London and find the whole experience petrifying. I thought I would give the Metro in Moscow a go I went to buy a ticket perhaps in the rush hour it is not a good idea when you don't speak the language don't know what train or platform or what station to ask for. I however joined the queue on reaching the front I thought the lady might understand that I just wanted a ticket to Red Square. that was my mistake I didn't want to cause any problems as commuters were trying to get to work I  left the queue and went to the information desk perhaps it would have been wise to do this first but in the typical British way we read the instructions when all else fails. There was a very helpful and friendly man who almost lead me by the hand to obtain the ticket one way for 55 rubles and directions to the train. I went down the escalator which looked as if we were going into the bowels of the earth I have fear of heights and it looks like depths as well. I followed the instructions he gave me almost correctly and boarded the train I was trying to follow the stops which were announced in English and Russian to discover I was on the circular line and could have been going round still but for another friendly Moscovite who gave me details of how to change to the correct line I found the experience of the kind and friendly people of Moscow most uplifting and would not have any fear of going on again thank you citizens of Moscow;5;April 23, 2018
From Russia with love;Well, what can I say, an interesting few days in the capital of Russia. The trip was originally booked for my wife and I before she left me for someone else and cost just over £600. So, I decided I would go on my own and I’m glad I did. Armed only with my trusty cabin luggage and an Asda bag full of my other bits...meant to buy a rucksack but failed epically in the months leading up to the trip. I digress...Moscow is beautiful and the people are very friendly. I felt very comfortable walking around the city. The first day I hired a private guide, Darya, whom in 5 hours showed me some of the main sites and made it enjoyable with loads of interesting history. The second day I walked around on my own, which, again was enjoyable. From the hotel, Double Tree, Hilton to Red Square was about 20 minutes by taxi the main sites are within walking distance. I downloaded a metro map onto my phone and jumped on and off to look at the sites a bit further out. Everything is well signposted and the locals english is very good. I’d say everything is fairly cheap, I ate in the hotel on the first night and secured a hefty loan to do so and then ate in local restaurants at a quarter of the price for the rest of the trip.Good points: all of itNot so good points: read my hotel reviewSome advice: You are a guest, treat people the way you want to be treated, the Russians are respectful, kind and helpful...let’s keep it that way. Don’t believe everything the media and politicians tell you. Uber all the way! Download the Uber app if you haven’t already...it is by far the cheapest way to get around. I booked a taxi through the hotel when I arrived at the airport and it cost 2700 rubels. I booked an Uber taxi...the same driver and it cost 1200 rubels to go back to the airport! That’s roughly £17 cheaper! Four pints of Russian beer!Learn the basics; please, thank you, hello, goodbye, yes and no...they like it.Enjoy it! It’s beautiful;5;April 23, 2018
Art work like museum;Last year, so afraid of being lost in the metro, I was super nervous and only focused on my destination. This year, they do announce the station name in Russian and even in English. They are preparing for the World Cup. I could distinguish many difference this year. Anyway, it becomes easier for foreigners like me to travel by metro. Some of stations are beautiful, just buy one ticket, visit those stations then you will be very confident how to use metro in Moscow.;4;April 23, 2018
Makes EVERY other metro feel medieaval;What a contrast to other subway systems in London (filthy and expensive), NY (noisy,filthy, unsafe and expensive) and Paris (disgustigly filthy, unsafe and exhausting).Some understanding of the Russian alphabet helps, but the rewards in terms of stations are immense.The overall layout is very simple and the management of people flows is s clever feature.And so cheap.;5;April 22, 2018
Beautiful metro,;You can  either do this with tour group, I did it on my own. The most beautiful metro can be seen on the brown line, line5. Paveletskaya, taganskaya, komsomolskaya, prospect Mira, novoslobodskaya, belorusskaya,  and mayakovskaya on green line and ploschad Revolyuttij on blue line.;5;April 22, 2018
“Puts NYC to Shame”;The Moscow Metro is simply awe-inspiring.Being a native New Yorker, the marvel of the Moscow Metro simply is amazing. The Architecture is so Devine and elegant.From the marble floors to the vast and numerous displays of art. To be honest words can’t describe the level of beautiful excellence that the Metro truly is.  Currently as of 2018 the efficiency of the Metro is astonishing. The trains coming roaring in and take off with complete accuracy and speed. Station to station and from one line to the next is like a orchestra. To rate the Moscow Metro in comparison to the New York City Subway is incomparable. Currently New York City is failing system with long delays and slow station to station train speeds.   It only cost 50 rubles for a ride, and they now have in-place English maps for an easier transition for tourist.  No need for a guide as easily navigable!;5;April 22, 2018
Absolutely marvelous;I love Moscow subway. For anyone who is familiar with the subway in New York, this will be a nice contrast.;5;April 22, 2018
Subway;The most cheap and fast transport in Moscow. We can earn hours using this public transportation. Hundred of stop stations and easy to follow.;5;April 20, 2018
Huge and unique;A lots of lines (>14 I guess), every station has their own interior and decoration, nice app to guide you.;5;April 18, 2018
Nothing else to be in time;The Moscow metro is one of the best experiences I had here. No delays, no technical problems, only the different names per line for the - more or less - same station is sometimes causing question marks.;4;April 17, 2018
Moscow Highlights;The friends we were travelling with had mentioned that this was a 'Must See' during our visit and as we had  employed the services of a guide for a few days to show us around Moscow, Natalya suggested that it would be a great idea to how us the highlights of the Metro.The place is just amazing and is truly astounding, all stations tell different stories and are palatial in the way they are decorated.What is even better is the way everyone is so respectful of others, no littering, no shouting and they really take care of the stations.  In one station there are bronze statues and in places these are shining, as locals during their journey 'ouch' the statue for luck.A great afternoon spent exploring;5;April 17, 2018
Fantastic experience made stress free with our great guide;We did the metro tour with a newish group called Free Walking Tours Moscow.  We had done the free walking tour with them two days before and had been impressed so booked with them again.  Their website states ' no minimum size group so your tour wont be cancelled", and they honor that- we were the only two on the tour. on this particular day  Anna, our tour guide was amazing,  she knew so much about the history and stories behind the different stations and the way they were decorated that we were enthralled the whole time.Yes, it is possible to just buy a metro ticket and travel to these stations, but when you got there you would not get all the stories about the different styles, images etc.  Navigation of the metro is also complicated, sure the two dimensional map shows pretty lines circling and crisscrossing - but the metro is three dimensional.  To get from one line to the next you go up (or down) escalators, through connecting corridors and then reach a concourse with trains going in both directions.  All of this underground so you have no points of reference and the signs are mostly in Russian (although they are now adding some in English just prior to the World Cup).Anna took us to 9 stations in just over an hour and a half- and the tour was worth every cent.;5;April 17, 2018
Beautiful...;You can feel the history around you... many many things have happened around... before visiting I would suggest to read a bit about the place. It is worth.;5;April 17, 2018
Great system of public transport;The Moscow metro is a great system of public transport. It is pretty cheap and you do not feel unsafe in the metro. The metro stations are beautiful and you feel being in a museum. Unfortunately not everywhere the signs in the stations are written in English language, so you might check beforehand where exactly to get off the metro. But inside the metro you will find information in English as well.;5;April 17, 2018
Beauty & Efficiency;The stations are beautiful, the trains are frequent and fast...  the depth of the system is accounted for by the military purpose of the whole business (bomb shelters)...  Information provision is poor in the stations (better on the trains).  Be sure to understand the cyrillic alphabet spelling of your destination as you arrive on the platform, in order to choose a train traveling in the right direction.;4;April 16, 2018
A Great, Easy & Cheap Way to Get Around Moscow;Much cheaper than the London Underground & the trains virtually follow each other during the day. The traffic in Moscow is as bad, if not worse than London, so this is really the way to get around the city. The trains are usually full because of the traffic & all the Moscovites run like they do in London but I can't see the point as they are so frequent. Arrows & coloured spots on the floor direct you to your line which is great but all the station names are in Cyrillic script which is a bit confusing. However Russian people are very friendly & if they see you in a muddle, they will help you. One lady went down 2 escalators & took us out of her way to our platform. There are no zones to worry about, a ticket (less than £1) will take you anywhere on the system; much better & cheaper than London. We were all a bit apprehensive about travelling due to the current political climate but that was completely unfounded; we had a fantastic time in Moscow & St. Petersburg.;5;April 16, 2018
Kinda busy place;Not the most nice place in Moscow but.. architecture at some stations is breathtaking. Like museum, alas, not many people care about it. Everyone just running around not playing attantion for all of this masterpieces.;4;April 16, 2018
A must visit;The metro is very organized , beautiful & clean , each metro has its own unique style , only needs more English signs to be much easier to use.;5;April 16, 2018
So many beautiful stations;Moscow metro offers many truly beautiful stations. On top of that, the metro is super clean and safe (and offers WiFi).;5;April 15, 2018
Russian metro is an educational too;Moscow metro is amazingly clean, beautiful, safe and easy to navigate and very cheap. I like to read interesting facts  on the trains  walls. I am actually learning few new things:)  I traveled a lot and confidently say- it is the best in the world so far.;5;April 15, 2018
Very deep;The metro is very deep and you get a funny feeling while going level after level deeper.Also strange feeling when you come out of the metro as you feel you are going straight up.;5;April 15, 2018
Absolute best way to get around in Moscow !!!;At less than $1 a ride, this is the fastest and cheapest way to get around in Moscow.  The added benefit is that each of the subway stations have unique architectural characteristics that make them all worth visiting.  Don't be in too big a hurry so you miss the incredible details.Be sure to travel with a map of the system. Most tourist maps have the Metro included.  If you don't read Cyrillic, and that included me, know what your next stop looks like graphically so you can spot it on the many signs located all over the stations.Also don't forget that your plastic fare card is refundable for 50 rubles (about $1).;5;April 14, 2018
A Wonder of Public Transportation;When I lived in Moscow in the earlier 2000s I was told that on a daily basis Moscow’s metro system moved more people than London, UK and NYC, USA combined on a daily basis. It feels that this might still be the case. Trains run with rapid frequency and the metro can talk you almost anywhere in the city. The downtown ring is like a museum and to me has some of the longest escalators one can imagine. An easy way to escape the traffic of metro too.;5;April 14, 2018
Makes the mundane enoyable;As a transport system it is easy, efficient and cheap to use and get around Moscow but there's plenty of stations which are worth viewing in themselves for the art and architecture.;5;April 14, 2018
STUNNING!;The best of the art work you will ever see in any underground subways around the World!   All you need is 110 rubles (about $ 5 US) to witness the beauty of this underneath Moscow World.;5;April 14, 2018
Very interesting and easy to do it yourself;We enjoyed travelling to the various metros and observing the different stations. The main stations are well noted and you just do it yourself - don't need a guide.55RUB gets you along way on a metro trip;5;April 13, 2018
Must to do when in Moscow;Moscow metro station are really work of art. It is stunning and beautiful. Take the brown line (circle line) and you will see the work of art. The fare is cheap, and Yandex apps really help while people in the metro station didn't do any help.The most epic experience is we should take escalator deep down to the platform, about 4-5 minutes ride.;5;April 13, 2018
Efficient and cheap;I went everywhere on the metro and it’s really easy to use if you can work out the name of the stations. Once inside the carriages, announcements are also in English and you can see the English transliteration on the map inside the carriage. But inside the station and on platforms, there’s nothing in English and staff are not very helpful and don’t speak English. If you can read Russian and can find your way around, the metro is great and very cost effective. Some of the stations are a work of art too, so do your research to see which ones you want to visit.;5;April 12, 2018
Work of Art;First, I really have no idea where some of the bad reviews are coming from referring to these stations as old and dirty.  These were the cleanest stations I have ever been in and there is literally someone sweeping at all hours of the night and day. Even the oldest stations look spotless and so beautiful. The most plain ones are still pretty to look at, and some of the really outstanding ones are just wow.  The best part is that during rush hour trains were every 30-40 seconds and at other times every 1.5-2 minutes (yes even at 1am).  This made it so convenient to ride the train and get off different stops to take a look at the stations. Loved every single one of them and I think the train system and the way the stations are operated is impeccable!;5;April 12, 2018
Just superb! Loved it!;One of the most èxciting meto/subways in the world! Must have if you visit Moscow even for a couples of days! I reccommed (I my friends adviced me before) to discover the centeral stations within time from 11 am till 16 pm. This is how you can skip the rush hour!;5;April 11, 2018
Beautiful metro!;I visit Moscow on a regular basis for business and just trips. Metro in Moscow is the most beautiful out of any that I've ever seen (and I've been to a few places!) Definitely recommend taking a tour :);5;April 10, 2018
Architectural Works of Art;While Moscow can be somewhat bleak and gray, the Metro is anything but dull. Many of the old stations are architectural works of art. Take the time to admire the historical beauty of these stations while waiting on the train to your next adventure.;5;April 10, 2018
Masterpiece;Convenient for people using it (since there is a train very 1.5-2 minutes) with some stations that have amazing decorations. Don't miss to visitPark Kultury-Arbatskaya-Kurskaya-Komsomolskaya-Prospekt Mira- Novoslobodskaya-Ploshchad Revolyutsii (rub the nose of the dog);5;April 10, 2018
Best in the world.;Exquisite stations, every 2 minutes on the dot. No crowds. A pleasure to travel on, not for comfort but for viewing and efficiency. Each station is different and tells a story. Great for travellers.;5;April 9, 2018
Amazing and unusual;These metro stations are a must see attraction in their own right. Make sure you spend some time checking them out. Some of the statutes are for good luck, with exams, love or money.;5;April 9, 2018
A work of Art and Efficiency;Just have fun and enjoy the extensive Moscow Metro..The stations are a work of art and so amazing with depth of history and culture;5;April 8, 2018
So beautiful!;Absolutely gorgeous! I wish the train stations were like this in Australia haha I may consider using public transport more often. Trains are excellent and abundant. They are old but it adds to the appeal. If you don’t speak or read Russian it can be difficult to get around in the maze of the subway. But overall I had a successful trip and beauty of the subway is truly worth checking out!;5;April 8, 2018
Mind blowing;I have know about the beauty of the Moscow metro since being a small boy. Being able to visit was fantastic. The ease with which one can navigate the metro is great. Either buy a one journey ticket or a multi journey ticket - it is very cheap and needless to say you get discounts on multi journeys. You simply use your pass as you enter and whether you go one stop or 50 stops, it is classed as one journey (even including line changes).The stations around the centre in particular are simply spectacular and I would recommend spending several hours getting off at stations to take in the incredible beauty.;5;April 8, 2018
Worth the effort for the experience.;The metro can be a little intimidating but it is a great way to get around the city and many of the stations are beautiful. There are ticket machines in all stations with instructions in English. You can buy a single ticket, 55 rubles, or a double for 110. You must have exact change in bills and or coins. If not you can use the ticket windows and hand signals are enough to explain what you want. The tickets are good for buses as well. To use a ticket tap the turnstile. If you only have one fare on it the machine will say “0”. Just throw the ticket away after that. To get around find your route first on google maps then use a map in Russian with Cyrillic to figure out your stop or station where you need to change and which platform to take. You won’t always find the names in Roman script in the stations, so knowing what it is in Cyrillic will be helpful. Most important, take your time to figure out where you are going. If you miss a train finding your bearings it’s no big deal. There will be another one in a minute or so. Also, there are often direction markers on the floor telling you where the exits are or other lines to change to.;4;April 7, 2018
Just got to be seen!;An amazing experience, probably the nicest underground stations in the world.  Very busy, so well organised and ultra safe !  Never ever felt a single problem or threat.;5;April 7, 2018
Amazing;It was a great exeperience. I with my tour group, took the metro & visited some station. The have unique paintings, pictures , lighting , very artistic drawings, the marbles in the wall. All was wow. Most importantly, the surroundings were clean.;5;April 7, 2018
Stunning;When visiting Moscow definitely take time to travel the subway system. Amazing artistry and detail. Can be quite busy during rush hour so off hours is likely best.;5;April 6, 2018
Efficient;As everybody were talking as how beautiful the metro stations are I was a bit dissapointed as there are nany stops rhat are just the same as anywhere else.;3;April 5, 2018
A great metro system but, and its  big but..........;Stylish, columns , statues, a place made for giants.  Wonderful. But its hard to navigate , changing lines is particularly hard as there are few signs in english,  . I know I am in Russia, why should there be signs in English , but even Tokyo is easier , and  Russia you could make Moscow a tourist magnet , generate a lot of tourist currency with just  a little thought on how to make the place accessible for non Russians,  and English is no longer a western language but a  lingua franca.;5;April 5, 2018
Palace/Art Gallery/Museum Feel;I'm amazed to see that a metro train station is built in a way that gives an impression of "entering a palace, art gallery and museum". A huge applaud to the architects/engineers who have worked to building such a commute monument.;5;April 5, 2018
Moscow Metro;Many of Moscow’s metro stations are architectural gems and well worth visiting. It is essential to realise that the metro is a very busy, vital and continuous element of Moscow’s transport system. Most central stations are very crowded. The platform concourses are often architecturally fabulous, but the elevators and passages to and between them are often dirty and congested, as with any Underground system. Many of these seemed to be lined with corrugated metal sheets and are often narrow and packed with travellers! Quite a few subways are lined with small shops which are worth looking in for bargains. Elevators are often very crowded and go very deep - interesting to see that it is common for folk to face each other to chat whilst on these. Trains are very frequent and often very crowded too - don’t expect to get a seat! So - be prepared to suffer a little discomfort to see the jewels of the stations themselves!;5;April 5, 2018
Stunning;The metro stations are so ample. Although it is crowded you don't feel claustrophobic. The stations look like museums full of history, you can spend a good half day going through them, it's difficult to choose only one. They are mainly in line 5 known as circle line.;5;April 4, 2018
Piece of art;Great fusion of new technologies and old times architecture. Getting more and more informative. Free WiFi. Just wait, after advertising u log in. Starts to be more userfriendly.;5;April 3, 2018
Ride the Metro in Moscow;There are taxis and uber in Moscow and it is not expensive but the Metro Stations are amazing, it is not that hard to get around, it is in Russian but if you have an app like Yandex or you have the stations in writing it is relatively easy. Some Stations are beautiful so its totally worth it.;5;April 3, 2018
Beautiful;You can't leave Moscow with out touring the main metro stations.  They are beautiful, grand and very different from each other.  Watch out for pick pockets.;5;April 2, 2018
London Metro Needs to Takes a Leaf out of Moscow Metro's book.;We had a Metro Card and used the Metro quite a lot. We had a Metro map in English and although all names were in Russian, we were able to use the Metro with ease. It was very clean, and if you missed your train, not to worry another one arrived within two or three minutes. They seemed to be full (packed) all day. We had a taxi to the hotel. ,so didn't need to take luggage onto the train.;4;April 2, 2018
Spectacular - Must see!;For only 55 Rubels you not only get to travel the city, but also see probably the most beautiful metro stations in the world.;5;April 2, 2018
Museum which brings you everywhere in Moscow.;All stations inside ring are architecture masterpieces. Entrance fee less than half dollar. Best time for visit late evening.;5;April 2, 2018
It isn't the oldest, not the biggest, not the fastest, but the most remarkable metro in the whole world!;The general idea of the Moscow Metropolitan was to build palaces open for everyone. The project was put into life with a great success! The oldest stations constructed before the WWII are monumental and filled with soviet enthusiasm, stations built during the Great Patriotic War represent not only an incredible engineer thinking but the force of the united nation. Modern stations are creative and ergonomic, they connect radial lines to make a big external ring of Moscow Metro.;5;April 2, 2018
The biggest chain in the world;In my experience only Russian metro ( subway) and specially Moscow metro stations build with scope and beauty, And easy to use.;3;April 2, 2018
Amazing mode of transport;I could not get over how efficient and effective the metro was as a mode of transport. You could get anywhere in the city quickly and with ease. It was cheap and well signposted. Each station on the inner circle featured bronze statues, gold leaf, or artistic cultural artefacts. Catch the city express from the airport and a car is not needed at all.;5;April 1, 2018
Impressive!;A unique experience- the Moscow Metro is absolutely beautiful! It is extremely elegant and clean. It is in its own a work of art, but it is also very functional. The trains come at very regular intervals, so you don't have to rush to get a certain train.;5;April 1, 2018
Fantastic decoration, and fast;Very nice stations ( mostly of these ) with a particular and beautiful architecture , the train are fast, clean and one every 2/3 minutes Come to see and go to use it;5;March 30, 2018
Beautiful underground stations;It’s hard to believe that people here not only excavated so many stations, but also designed it to look marvelous, especially stations in city center;5;March 29, 2018
Most beautiful Metro- a museum to be appreciated by all!;Totally recommend to join a Metro Tour. Every station has something different to offer. My favourite is ‘The Palace’.;5;March 29, 2018
Moscow's amazing metro system;Who knew the underground could be so beautiful? Moscow’s metro stations are ornately decorated and full of unique art and design. Much of it captures historical events. Some metro stations are quite luxurious with splendid halls and chandeliers. The metro stations are treasures in of themselves. The only unfortunate thing is we happened to visit during the rush hour and it got very busy and crowded. On the other hand, it gave us a more authentic experience.;4;March 28, 2018
Efficient and beautiful;The Moscow Metro is very efficient, works well and has some AMAZING details at some of the stations. Do some research on the best stations to see. Even if you don't though, you may be surprised by some of the beautiful details as you travel the Moscow Metro.;5;March 28, 2018
Nice experience;Very well developed. Older stations are very deep into the ground. New ones - shallow. Older ones have very nice decorations. Good system for moving around the city and to see some old post communistic architecture.;4;March 27, 2018
Extraordinary;Metro of Moscow has many stations to see. Circular line (5 brown line), red line and blue line had the most impressive but many stations are very nice. I got a three day pass for only 420 rublos (6 euros) not only for metro also for bus. I think is a good idea. Metro signals are some in english but the majority in russian so you should memorize the name of station in russian in the direction you go;5;March 27, 2018
Underground museum!;There are at least 10 stations in Moscow underground which can easily be called a Masterpiece. Kievskaya, Mayakovskaya, Arbatskaya, Komsomolskaya et al. It's very impressive and a must-see for every visitor to Moscow!;5;March 26, 2018
An amazing place;We only travelled to three Metro stations and 'wow' are they beautiful. Everywhere was very clean and certainly different to the London Underground.;4;March 25, 2018
Metro;I have taken the underground in numerous cities. The Moscow metro is outstanding.  It is on time, it is unbelievably clean & efficient.  I fo not recommend going unless you were with a Russian speaker to know where to go & where to get off.  So, the question is why does't everything here in Moscow work as efficiently as the Metro.  An unanswerable question.;5;March 25, 2018
Efficient and easy.;The metro is everywhere and easy to use. There are a dozen lines connecting the city and the trains run every 90 seconds. Also, there are gorgeous stations so its worth it to take a look at many of them. With such frequent service you can easily get off and look around and take the next one, or the one after that. There is also wi-fi on the trains. It's a truly great network.;5;March 25, 2018
Easy to Get Around;If in Moscow, try to take the subway at least once. It's easy to navigate and the people are extremely helpful. There's also an Information Booth that will give assistance. I went to ticket counters because I couldn't read Russian. Staff at ticket counters all spoke some English, enough to buy a ticket to where you're going. Train line maps are located on each floor of the subway and inside the subway cars. The architecture inside the subway stations are breathtaking. They have colossal halls that will astonish you. The distraction can make you miss your train but don't worry, another comes along within a few minutes. Try to visit/ride the subway before 4pm. It tends to get really crowded and busy after 4pm. The subways are clean and safe. I highly recommend.;5;March 24, 2018
Well worth a look;Having heard of the differing interiors of the underground stations in Moscow, I decided to take a look. I was surprised at how much I actually enjoyed walking around and looking at the various murals, statues, etc.;4;March 24, 2018
the most beautiful subway of the world;Stations like palaces: The Moscow subway is the most beautiful of the world.It is a mix of baroque, classicism, Soviet realism. Inside it you will see bronze and marble statues, friezes, reliefs, stained glass windows, and mosaics made of marble, granite and glass. On the other hand there are images of sports, agriculture, industry, and performances of important victories and of course since the October Revolution.;5;March 24, 2018
A "MUST SEE";All tourist should see the Metro.  Its like going to a Art gallery.  Taking the Metro train itself is easy just follow the colors and you'll get it.  Beside the stations or the next stops are announced in Russian and English.  Moscowites are quite lucky to have such amazing attraction - nowhere in the world can this amazing attraction can be found.  Take a guided tour because you will miss out on some of the interesting details of this attraction, the story behind each station design and the materials and period it took for the completion of each.  Don't forget to bring your camrea because lighting is also excellent.;5;March 23, 2018
Stunning architecture;We went on a metro tour arranged by our travel company, and it was so worth it! Every station is different, whilst a number of them have huge chandeliers. Some stations had stained glass windows, whilst others had statues. I've never seen a metro like it- just incredible and so worth a visit.;5;March 22, 2018
Must do affair;Ah..i think this has happened for the first time in my career that I have taken a metro for the sake of architecture. But then this does not happen to be any ordinary affair. The Moscow train stations are a visual delight that you will experience only if you agree to go for a ride....a train eide that is...Dont miss;5;March 22, 2018
A Moscow classic;Even if you have a (rental) car to use the Moscow Metro is a must do. I strongly recommend to do it outside the rush hour if possible. There are some very nice decorated stations in the city center area, the ones towards the suburbs aren't that nice.;5;March 21, 2018
Nostalgic and Convenient;The Metro is reasonably priced and a convenient way to miss the traffic congestion.  You can get close to where you want with this system.;4;March 18, 2018
Could have spent hours exploring the different stations!;None of the stations disappoint! Make sure you visit the famous ones but it’s worth taking the time to visit a couple of others if you can. Dostoyevskaya for example is a newer station with murals depicting his literature - bit dark but worth seeing. Everything worth seeing is on the platform and one ticket let’s you ride around endlessly if you don’t exit!;5;March 18, 2018
Cheapest transport in Moscow;Another relic of the Soviet era, but still very efficient. Ticket purchasing is simple even though language is a challenge. We used sign language to indicate the no of tickets/rides. All the signage are in Russian so that can be a challenge, but they do announce train station names in English on the train. The trains are quite old but still very fast. The stations are clean and the architecture is spectacular in some of the larger stations.;4;March 18, 2018
Amazing pieces of art;Moscow subway ) train station is an amazing and a must do activity for those who appreciate art and a must stop for those who appreciate beauty...Moscow metro opened in 1935 with one 13 km line and 11 stations, they are works of art and hsitory for sure;5;March 18, 2018
See it!;The Moscow metro is not only a feat of engineering that moves millions of people every day but an architectural wonder. Deep under the city, it serves as both a bomb shelter and a transportation hub. English speakers will have no problem navigating after getting use to the signage and should you become confused the staff is happy to help with questions. We took the metro purely to see the art and architecture and spent about 1 hour traversing 5 stops. Absolutely gorgeous and must when visiting Moscow.;5;March 17, 2018
Every Station is Different;Each station has its own theme and decoration and they are interesting to look at.  Luckily we did the metro stations on a Saturday so the crowds weren't that bad.  The trains are very frequent but are not the main story here, it is the stations.;4;March 17, 2018
Works of art;The subway stations are very much like a museum. They are tile and stucco decorated. They are clean although the trains look to be very old. The stations are the star attraction.;5;March 16, 2018
Spectacular and efficient;Many Moscow metro stations are spectacular jewels from the old soviet times. They are well maintained and super efficient to get around the city;5;March 16, 2018
museum of its own!;soviet metro system is an architectural jewel of its own. every station, especially from the period before the ussr collapsed, has its own theme and feels like if you were in a museum...;5;March 15, 2018
Stunning architecture in the heart of Moscow;I have been showing the Moscow Metro/Tube/Subway to almost all my tourists for the past four years. None left the tour disappointed. It takes good one or two hours to explore the most beautiful stops; Just recently it became rather easy to get around, with announcements being dubbed in English. I suggest you end your up journey at Komsomolskaya station as it can be indeed called crème de la crème.;5;March 15, 2018
The beauty era of Soviet union;All of the "circle" metro, if im not mistaken the brown line are beautiful and very easy to understand, i had alphabets print out, but after a while you'll sorta find similarity with english. Metro hopping is easy to do on your own. Train door close very very fast, dont rush in, train comes every minute;5;March 15, 2018
Amazing Architecture Metro;My guide Elena take a to Metro guide tour and found it amazing to see different sculptures and paintings on each station is different. It was used for the people to hide in this underground bunkers. It has a historical and is the oldest and till now everything is functioning well maintained and clean.;4;March 13, 2018
Must visit in Moscow. Don't miss this;It was initially very difficult for me since I dont know Russian. But it took me 2-3 rides to get a hang of it. But was worth travelling in metro. If you are using the metro for more than 2-3 times, do take the Troika card. It saves money on travelling using metro.;5;March 12, 2018
Amazing!;So delighted to travel in Moscow tube. Many stations are masterpieces, it’s not very difficult to find the needed station or route.;5;March 12, 2018
Wow incredible;We decided to get the Metro as we’d heard so much good stuff about it and it didn’t disappoint. It was very grand and full of art / history. We got a little lost as there wasn’t any signs in English but we just walked outside to get our bearings. Worth a ride!;4;March 11, 2018
State of art;Like an undeground museum.Clean,fast and efficient.ATTENTION!Sicne recently the metro administration finally intoduced English language announcements inside the trains,and Latin captions in all metro maps(grey letters under the Cyrillic black ones) and floor navigation.There is also free wi-fi(MT-FREE) on all lines.Enjoy!;5;March 8, 2018
Amazing;One of the most beautiful metro systems, which I know. Very short waiting intervals. Mostly all locations you need to visit are covered.;5;March 7, 2018
Best metro in the world;The metro in beautiful and efficient. The cost per entrance is only 55 p and it can get you almost anywhere in Moscow. The stations are a work of art, well market and you can switch rides as you like. On trains there is a working wi-fi and there is a new train almost every minute. Would highly recommend as a mean of transport and as a work of art.;5;March 5, 2018
Daunting!!;Wow, if you don't know Cyrillic language you will be at a disadvantage.  Best if you can find an English speaking Russian, but they are few and far between.  The Subway maps near the ticket counter are o.k. because they have the 'anglo' spelling of the Russian words.  But once you get into the subway system, while beautiful in its architecture and history and tiling of the Cyrillic lettering, but there are no more translations to Anglo easily found.  When I traveled on the Beijing metro, they had the 'english' spelling alongside the Chinese characters everywhere.  Not so much in Moscow metro. Hard to even memorize the first 3-4 characters of the name of your metro stop when they are letters for which you have NO familiarity.  In China it was much easier since I could just remember the first 3-4 'english' letters and have it make a 'sound' so it was very easy to remember.  Maybe a notepad would have helped!!!;2;March 4, 2018
Need to know your stations;We had a couple of suggestion of which are a must see but we got lost and confused . All signs were  in Russian and can get a Little busy if you visit at the wrong time . But we saw one station that looked like a museum;3;March 4, 2018
31 st Night by Metro in Moscow .;It was fantastic and most of ppl were using Metro after new year celebrations .Metro worked 24 hour circle .It was very safe & clean .I really enjoyed traveling in Metro with my family .;5;March 4, 2018
A Must See;Some of the Moscow metro stations were just breathtaking. Very unique and beautiful and a must see for someone visiting Moscow!;5;March 3, 2018
Whole day for a few pence.;The best way to see Moscow on a budget.Do visit on a quiet day and take your time and visit as many stations as possible.They are all different and you feel safe .;5;March 3, 2018
A great day in / out;The Moscow metro is a wonderful way to get around the city. Great service and many many exquisitely designed stations, from Mayakovskaya , where Stalin spoke to a besieged Moscow , to the beautiful mosaics of Kievskaya. Well worth a look see. Free WiFi is offered so who knows, you might even spot some babooshka’s checking their Instagram.;5;March 3, 2018
A real life museum, not just public transport;Moscow subway provides the fastest way of going around the city at a very reasonable price ($0.5 per trip with rechargeable Troika card or $1 per trip for single trip ticket)The stations within the center loop are incredibly beautiful. It is like another museum! My favorites are Ploshad Revolutcii, Kievskaya and Arbatskaya. There are few companies providing guided tours related to the history of Moscow metro, but you can still just see everything being on the way wherever you need to go, without any special tour. It is crowded at peak hours as any huge city subway. Navigation can be a bit confusing for someone visiting for the first time, but you will find a metro map on every station and inside every train car, as well as there are phone apps allowing to create fastest way from station to station. Has free WiFi. Open till 1 am.;5;March 3, 2018
Beaty of the Moscow metro;The Moscow Metro is probably the best mode of transport anywhere in the world as LLC of the stations have historical features with beautiful architectural elements which are stunning.;5;March 3, 2018
Great tour;Take the metro in Moscow is one of the most increíble thing you can do, just for 1 usd you can spend 2-3 hours around an open museum, feeling like in palaces. One advice, trace your route in advance to avoid come and forth several times from the same station.;5;March 3, 2018
Hop on, hop off;Several metro stations are worth the stop, to enjoy the remain of last century popular art, dressed up by sovietic touch! The “circular” line, which crosses all other metro lines offer a few attractive stations, with a touch of liberty style.;4;March 3, 2018
Do you want to visit a museum underground ?;It is the most beautiful metro in the world, without any doubt ! Each station is a unique work of art. Sometimes austere, sometimes voluptueuse, each is a different artistic discovery. And the information in Cyrillic makes the place a little more mysterious.;4;March 1, 2018
Underground marvel;Absolutely stunning. My mother had talked to me about the Metro since I was a child saying how beautiful and efficient it was. You don’t understand until you truly see it with your own eyes.;5;March 1, 2018
Amazing underground;The metro takes you anywhere in just a few minutes. Some stations, the ones from soviet Russia, are just gorgeous. For the price of a ticket it really is worth it to go everywhere by metro, stocking fast and seeing some beautiful stations while at it.;5;February 28, 2018
Wow;The most amazing and complicated metro you will ever see, it's majestic, breathtaking and scary in the same time, you need to get a map and ask people to be able to get into the right train to the right station, I got lost in it .. but I liked the adventure;5;February 27, 2018
Stunning, Efficient, Clean and Safe;I cannot rate the metro high enough, not only does it do what it intends, but it also does it at a very reasonable price and in some style.One journey costs 55 rubles (whether it is one stop or from one end of the line to another).  None of this worrying if you are going into a different zone (as with the London underground).  It is little wonder that it is constantly busy, but fear not, everything runs smoothly and with any problems even though at an estimate (2017) that 9 million people use the metro everyday in Moscow.Keep up the good work Moscow!!!;5;February 27, 2018
Beautiful as ever;If there was a “most beautiful metro” award, Moscow should win it. No other metro has stations that look like they belong in a museum.;5;February 27, 2018
Historic travel;There are so many stations to visit. So great. One ticket will be enough to hope on and off to see the stations but dont exit from any stations until you finish;5;February 26, 2018
beautiful and efficient;best way to go around in Moscow, not only efficient but clean, safe and beautiful.Do as the Moscovites do !;5;February 26, 2018
Best transport in Moscow.;Moscow metro is underground museum. Every station is different and very beautiful. Center stations more historical and new stations are very modern. I like to have WiFi in metro train. It's cool.;5;February 25, 2018
Effective;The Metro is an effective and reliable service. In the time we were in Moscow, we found our way around easily. Very clean and, in some areas, nicely designed, in comparison to some other European metro systems.;4;February 24, 2018
A fun way to escape the cold;Definitely worth taking the metro at some point during your trip - just get a pass and then get off anytime you see a nice station;5;February 24, 2018
a MUST for a traveller;Moscow underground is exquisite and grandiose, many stations are real subterranian palaces! For this we have to thank the USSR, Lenin and Stalin (who protected this cultural masterpiece from European fascism).;5;February 22, 2018
It’s like a museum;The best metro stations ive seen thus far. The only downside is you can hardly understand as i dont see an english translation. But the interiors are just amazing;5;February 21, 2018
Such a surprise;This is a must see.... I was amazed by those beautiful stations. Each station has got their own special theme so If you are going to visit Moscow metro stations please look up some information beforehand as it will make more sense. Beautiful!;5;February 21, 2018
Moscow Subway;very safe subway system, cheap like 35 cents (dollars) per ride using blink system. the mayor 6 tourist stations are well done protected with military police. amazing art and history of Russia.;5;February 20, 2018
Beautiful stations;You have to see this amazing metro stations!!!! Like a palace!!!!And it’s the cheapest and fastes possibility to go from place to place in Moscow!;5;February 19, 2018
A guided tour before we leav Moscow after 5 years;We are very pleased with the guided tours Bridge to Moscow have had. So it was the reason to join them on a guided tour at the Moscow Metro a Saturday in February, just a few months before we leave Moscow after been here for 5 years. We have used the Moscow Metro as transportation in these years and have enjoyed it.  What we had not done was to take the time to visit some of the very interesting stations that have so much art to show. Also the different periods in Russian life can be seen in the way the stations are created. That the later President Nikita Khrushchev was an engineer and worked on the first part of the Metro back in 1931 was interesting.It is the peoples metro and it shows art in a typical historic way. We get amazed how many fantastic decorations there are and the way it is formed.Transporting more than 9 million people each day you know many do not see the art, but many also sit down with their book and read and maybe waiting for friends.Love the Moscow Metro and I recommend people visiting take this tour if the can.Have to thank the guide Ivan Borisov for a great job.;5;February 19, 2018
Tribute to civilization;Moscow Metro is more than just a subway. It is clean.  Stations look like churches.  Every station is different.  People are polite.  There is no graffiti.  Everytime I ride I think this is what humans are capable of.  All over the world could be like this. Moscow Metro is an inspiring tribute to civilization;5;February 19, 2018
Never have I taken so much photos at a Metro Station;I've not much to compare this with. London's tube station and Singapore's MRT.But my God, I didn't expect the Metro Station to be one of Moscow's jewels. There's just such a romantic, vintage feel to it mostly due to the lighting and design on the walls and floors.So much so that it temporarily distracts me from the fact that you can't understand what the signboards are saying because it's all in cyrillic!Nevertheless, I highly recommend trying out the Metro Station at least once when you're in Moscow. Get a reliable tour guide of course!;4;February 17, 2018
Works well and plenty of trains; Being able to read Cyrillic is a plus.;Cheap, fast, loads of trains, safe but also noisy. On most trains the names of the upcoming stations are announced also in English. However station names are always in Cyrillic. Not many people speak English in Moscow / Russia. So figuring out where to head can be a bit of challenge. Fortunately there is the great Moscow Metro app by Yandex Metro to help you.;4;February 16, 2018
Very bueatiful Architecture;I had the chance to visit several metros, in Moscow. The structure are amazing, and you can tell that they a pride for Muscovites.;5;February 16, 2018
How underground transit should be;If you are in Moscow, you must take a ride on the Metro.  It is a cheap and very easy way to get round the city (note that not all the signage is in latin, so plan trips if you don't speak Russian).  The stations are amazing, like cathedrals of mass transit.  If you avoid the rush hour periods then  you will have clean, spacious, reliable transport and the stations are worth exploring if you love architecture.;5;February 14, 2018
Definitely the most amazing metro in the world;Do not change anything...may e except the signage on the platform as you din't know which station is that;5;February 14, 2018
Never have I seen so many people.;I lived in London for years but the Moscow metro is so much busier. It’s difficult because of the Russian alphabet to read signs and the change station can get very bewildering due to the crowds. That said you are never too far away from a station and it’s really cheap.;4;February 13, 2018
Do not miss!;The Moscow metro is the most beautiful transit system i've ever seen. I was amazed by the fact that we saw absolutely no graffiti on the walls.If you can't read Russian language not so easy to travel with.not much english sigh there.;5;February 12, 2018
Beautiful and clean;Wonderful. Loved going from station to station. No one throws litter or cigarette ends, don’t think they would dare!. Only downside was the elderly people, mostly old ladies, going round with brush and shovel.;5;February 11, 2018
Unbelievably very frequent trains.;Very nice metro not only to travel, but also still  a historical place. Very busy but well organised.;4;February 11, 2018
Another DO NOT MISS;Take the Circle Line and get off at most of the stations.  The architecture and the statues were Stalin's effort to show off the grandeur of Russia.  Take time to look at the mosaics and the light fixtures and make sure you stroke the nose of the lucky dog at Ploshchad Revolyutsii Station.;5;February 9, 2018
Cheap and effective public transportation in Moscow;Much quicker then travelling by car or taxi. Taxi trip in Moscow is always a lottery for forigners who does not speak local language. Taxi drivers charging higher (night) fees seeing people from abroad.;5;February 8, 2018
Beautiful and efficient;The trains may be old but the stations are almost all beautiful and this is the easiest way to get about Moscow.;5;February 7, 2018
there is a beautiful place;i think you should try it one time of your like because it's so beautiful but also a lot of people there. i was get lose in the metro. it's so mysterious for me hahah;5;February 6, 2018
History art and transport;You should not miss a look at the art work and the structure of the metro.  The history is really interesting and yhe art work is great.  Some of the buskers are really good too.If you are like us and dont speak or read Russian it can be a challenge.  I found the trick was to get one of the metro maps that had the stations marked in both Russian letters and English .  The stations are announced in English when you are on the train nut you need to be able to identify the Russian words to know what side of the platform to go to.  Yhis worked for me.  You can buy tickets at the machine or from the cashier.  There are some cashier booths marked as speaking English.  They are all helpful.  It is a cheap and fast way to get around.;5;February 5, 2018
One of the best public transport systems in the world;Recently all signs and announcements on the Moscow Metro are in Russian and English.  It is the fastest and cheapest way to travel in Moscow.  At all stations you can buy tickets for as many rides as you like from English speaking ticket offices;5;February 4, 2018
Interesting  history;we took a guided tour of the inner city metro stations. Many of them were very ornate with statues or murals, pictures etc detailing the history of Moscow and the wars they had been through. You can see the nuclear doors which are still tested at some stations. I would recommend a tour, the one we had was through expedia and at the end we were treated to a local sweet fruit pie and russian tea;4;February 4, 2018
A museum with a metro inside;You really must take the metro and breath the beauty of many of its station...Some of them look like the foyer of an opera theatre. As the stations names are written only in Cyrillic it might be not easy getting around. Thankfully on the trains the announce the stops also in English;4;January 30, 2018
I take it every day and still I am impress!!!;This metro is very good. Quick and punctual.Many beautiful stations and quite usefull.Security and safety is very good : there is police everywhere and it is very confortable.Cost is raisonable.Trains are a bit old and noisy : on rail, not on wheels.It is a very nice way to visit moscow :-);5;January 30, 2018
Most beautiful metro in the world;It is indeed the most beautiful metro in the world. All stations have their own beautiful style. Loved it.;5;January 28, 2018
Best in the world;Very frequent and on time. Nicely decorated with arts. People are so orderly. Very pleasant to ride it. Would be better if more signs in English. Try to get app in both Russian and English would be helpful.;5;January 26, 2018
Not to be missed;You cannot miss the underground stations in Moscow they are a sight seeing not just a normal underground! Do not miss the important old stations.Full of statues thst people touch for good luck!;4;January 26, 2018
Brilliant;What a service! We never waited more than about 30 seconds for a train - never got a seat, always busy, but that didn't matter. If you have no, or shaky, Russian language skills, use the ticket vending machines - they are easy and have an English language option. A single ticket effectively covers any journey you wish to make until you actually leave the station.What really helped us was downloading the Yandex Metro app for Android - you can switch between English and Russian, and then pattern match station names easily. As another reviewer said, probably not worth a tour, but well worth using.;5;January 26, 2018
Moscow metro;Beautiful architecture.  Every station is slightly different although there is s theme of marble.   Statues are amazing.  Clean, spotlessly clean. Light and spacious. Bronze statues and plaques dedicated to arts sports and engineers.  Very impressive.;5;January 26, 2018
The ONLY way to travel extensively around Moscow.;If you have several meetings during your trip, this is the best option; forget taxis. Buy a multiple trip ticket and off you go.  Very extensive network. In 8 working days I took more than 20 trips and never waited more than 2 minutes for a train. Consequently, there is less overcrowding than in London for example, even during rush hour. If you have ever tried getting a Northern Line train out of Bank station in London at 5.30pm you will know what I mean.;5;January 26, 2018
First Metro Experience;Moscow Metro is the example of superb engineering of past few decades . Management had kept everything maintained. It was my first & memorable metro experience.;5;January 25, 2018
Cannot be missed - grandeur of the stations;The Moscow metro is hugely popular with the locals and tourists and the most convenient mode of transport. We were looking forward to taking private guided tour and it certainly exceeded our expectations! The signs are in Russian so it is recommended to take a guide along. We saw the creme-de-la-creme of the metro stations, unparalleled beauty of each interior different from the other. The artists had spared no effort to beautify the stations way back. They are spotlessly clean and very well maintained. One of the stations was adorned with stained glass, the other with magnificent chandeliers, another with glass murals, another with lifelike bronze sculptures. Towards the end it got really crowded as it was the evening peak hour rush. Plan ahead, buy the travel tickets and you are in for a treat. Would love to see this again if ever i visit the city!;5;January 25, 2018
Efficient public transportation;Without any comparison the most effective and safe way to travel in Moscow. Now most lines has got English announcement of the stations in addition to english names on the Maps! Many stations has raer decorations and is worth spending time to See.;4;January 24, 2018
Part of tour;A tour of the metro service was included on a European tour with STA travel. Def recommended. It was nice to hear the different stories and see the different unusual designs.Would like to see it again.;4;January 23, 2018
Marvelous Old World Charm in the magnificantly located hotel in the heart of Red Square. Sumptious Breakfast Fare;Marvelous Old World Charm in the magnificantly located hotel in the heart of Red Square. Sumptious Breakfast Farewith personalable and helpful staff that are at you beck and call any time of the day and night.. Convient pick up ina classic luxury automobile.. The hotel can provide for your every need;5;January 23, 2018
Incredible but not worth a Tour!;I've seen quite a few hours advertised for the Moscow Metro but the cost is insane! Seing as you can ride in the metro for as long as you want and get off at as many stations as you want for one price, rather buy a book on it and save yourself a lot of money!;5;January 23, 2018
Very beautiful metro stations;Every metro station in Moscow can be considered a piece of arts. I cannot believe how they could build such system in earlier 20th century. Besides, it is very convenient for tourists to travel everywhere in Moscow with such system. The metro fare is too cheap if you by a Troika Card and top it up when it is finished (but I still had a lot of money in my card after 3 days visit).;5;January 23, 2018
Moscow Metro;The Moscow Metro is an excursion unto itself. Before you visit, do your research. It is fascinating.;4;January 22, 2018
Worth to pay a visit;Impressive metro stations in Moscow!!!!! Worth to try Kiyevskaya and many others. There are top 10 on the web;5;January 22, 2018
Moscow Metro, great, old, beautiful, and now with the latest technologies;It is always a pleasure to go by metro in Moscow, not only because of the beautiful stations but now they have a stunning new trains running with great comfort and the latest technologies, like USB charging points touch screens and quality Wi-Fi.Love it.;5;January 22, 2018
Wow;One of a kind experience in Moscow.  A must see!!   The art is breathtaking.   Typical of Russia clean, efficient and reliable;5;January 21, 2018
Awesome;Amazing murals, chandaliers etc keep you eyes open, look above you. At times it feels like you’re in a ballroom. The central line is the best and do visit the central station.  Extremely efficient too, the trains stick to a rigid timetable and roar into the staion, don’t take any prisoners, make sure you hang on when they accellerate out!;5;January 21, 2018
Very nice.;Although it can get very congested, it's a must to come see the Moscow Metro in your own eyes and take out pics for memories.;4;January 20, 2018
nostalgic metro;this metro is really different from every metro i had seen before. it is really artistic. i like its architecture;5;January 20, 2018
Metro station in a museum;Compared to basically all other cities around the world it is just bizarre how beautiful some of these stations are. You are basically taking a metro from inside a museum. You should ask the hotel about the best way to see the best stations. The train itself is also operating well.;5;January 20, 2018
Museum stations;I read somewhere that this metro stations were decorated so amazingly to make people joyful. I liked that. Just to make people’s commute a little better. I can totally understand why...being in Russia in winter, u might spend a lot of time indoors. The decorations are jaw dropping! Beware of the cyrillic thou, u won’t find signs written in our abc. Hope u have good orientation and google maps in cyrillic (this helped a lot);5;January 19, 2018
A MUST see;Stunning!  Not even the Paris Metro comes close to the majesty of some of these stations, it puts NY to shame and makes London's Tube look archaic.  The artwork and history are different in each featured station and some have been 'edited' to remove historic figures who fell out of favor.  If you don't research it before you arrive, ask your hotel concierge for a printout describing the important stations and to mark a route on your Metro map of either the short or long tour.  Well worth the walking from one line to another to find all the statues,  stained glass and mosaics.;5;January 19, 2018
A wonderful free underground museum;When it is too cold outside, you can take the metro at any close station.  Much better if you have downloaded the Moscow Metro application where you have the names in English and Russian then just go station by station you can get off the metro have few minutes admiring what is known as the underground museum, take pictures in the amazing corridors and in few minutes you can take the next metro to go to the next station and so on...it is really pleasant and nice even when it is crowded.  If you don't have plenty of time you can check in Google before going which stations are the most beautiful and usually most of them are in the Red, green and blue lines.  All of them reaching to the most famous landmarks in Moscow.;5;January 19, 2018
Fast And Efficient;At first it looks bewildering, but just remember that the multiple lines are numbered and colour coded. The direction of each line takes its name from the final station of that direction. There are maps in Roman characters as well as Cyrillic in every carriage and there are announcements on every arrival in Russian and English.  Trains operate at least every 2 minutes. It’s easiest to buy a travel card for a fixed number of journeys and you just swipe in. Escalators are fast by western standards and can be steep. Stand to the right to let people pass on the left.Photography is not allowed on the metro and whilst the stations are spacious, I don’t find them to be the works of art that some would have you believe.;4;January 16, 2018
Amazing stations and art work!;Such pretty stained glass and decorations. The stations are huge and very deep down. The escalators are amazing and they last for up to 5 minutes at some stations.;5;January 16, 2018
Worlds most beautiful metro;It’s like a museum. Really funny to show it to foreigners. And finally they speak English in the metro!;5;January 15, 2018
Stunning.... 😍😍;Before here i never knew that metro stations can b this beautiful and photogenic....every metro station is different and charming...;5;January 15, 2018
efficient, magnificent, just a little tricky to get around;The metros in Moscow and St. Petersburg were a highlight of visiting both cities.  I've used the subways in lots of cities and have never seen any form of infrastructure decorated as those are, with lots of marble, vaulted arches, chandeliers, murals, etc.  The look is a little dated, and a lack of English signage (transliterated to Roman lettering) makes it tricky to get around in spots, but the system is incredibly efficient and beautiful.  They even have free wifi on the trains, although you do need a local number to register to use it, so would need to buy a tourist sim for access.  It's even less expensive than metros / subways ever are, costing something like a dollar per trip.  Again buying the access card for the trains can be tricky, because sales staff speak no English, but the machines do offer an English function, which we never did use since we bought the red by-credit cards instead of a value top-up version.  Per my understanding you can buy 1, 2, or 20 trip versions of those, perfect for a family to get around.  I didn't figure it out right away but it might be easiest to use a version of the subway map in English (Roman lettering for stops, but text would also be in English) and also in Russian (Cyrillic lettering), so you could transliterate on your own.  Or just keep asking people in stations with only that second form; that works.;5;January 15, 2018
Very efficient and warm!;The metro system in Moscow is very efficient. It is clean, cheap and easy to ride. Ok, you have to pay a bit more attention because the writing is in Cyrillic but if babies can match shapes..... We used it for everything and only reverted to Taxis very occasionally (Uber works well in Moscow) Some of the metro stations are very pretty. It is very safe day and evening time. Having said that, Moscow is a big city so big city safety rules always apply! Specially the common sense rule!;5;January 14, 2018
Underground Palaces;The Moscow Metro is the most beautiful, most safe and efficient system in the entire world.The ride in Moscow Metro is not only a simple commute but also an immersion into the glorious history of Russia and its  architectural masterpieces.You will never forget your trips in Moscow Metro.;5;January 13, 2018
A wonderful place to visit and travel;El mejor medio de transporte en una ciudad de 12 millones de habitantes, the best way to mover in Moscow, and so cheap;5;January 13, 2018
Castle architecture for a Metro;The most beautiful Metro  I have seen in my life. Full of history, beauty of design and architecture. After spending five days in Moscow it became very easy for me to commute using the Metro. I used the Metro app which helped me a lot. As a tourist, the most interesting station are the ones of the brown circle line which are the main metro stations if I am not wrong. I didn't need a touristic guide, I got a ticket for 50 rubel and visited all the stations. Once you go in, you can have as much rides as you want but if you go out of the station through security, you need to pay another ticket. For those commuting for a long period, a Troika would be good. There are machines with language choice, so you can buy the ticket by your own. if you have a Russian sim card, you will have access to free WiFi inside.Enjoy the Beauty of Moscow Metro. I am sure you will not regret.;5;January 12, 2018
Be careful if you are Asian;Caucasians do not have to pass security check even they have very big luggage, but Asians have to pass it even they have very small backpacks. I recommend Asians carry anything because they discriminate Asians.;1;January 11, 2018
Use the metro - very efficient;We used the metro all the while to get about Moscow.  The ticket machines do English and the train stop announcements are in Russian/English too.  There's an app too for your phone to guide you to your destination.  Cheap too.  Loved using it.  The longest you'll wait for a train is 90 seconds.  They are always packed though, so get used to standing.;5;January 10, 2018
Museum Style Metro;Very beautiful metro and quite useful like in any big city.  Amazing architecture and artistic ornaments.  But the lack of help towards tourism that doesn´t understand cyrillic is terrible.  It would be nice to have the names of major points in Enlgish or any other language easier to translate.;3;January 10, 2018
Very clean and beautiful;I really mention that the metro station of the Moscow are the only communication point to be reach fast and safe. Thanks to my friend who with me while experience the city, actually to know more about stations and the location is quite tough. Also thanks to the government that they put the English sign too with Russian language which is easy to understand out siders. You can help from peoples as they are very friendly.;5;January 9, 2018
Very convenient and fast - make sure you know what to do - very little English;Well, since I speak Russian Moscow subway is excellent choice to travel cheap and fast. For people who do not speak the language, make sure to know your route as Moscow subway has very little English help.;4;January 8, 2018
Grand;We experienced about six stops & line changes & each station was different. The depth of the metro is deeper than anywhere, except maybe Kiev. But the tiled & decorated platforms & walkways are wonderful;5;January 8, 2018
Awesome metro stations;It is well worth using the metro in MoscowThey are all different with different stylesI was both at rush hour and when it was not as busy and of course you could see more when there were less peopleThe ticket cost 55 rubles and you can go between stations as long as you don’t go out;5;January 8, 2018
Efficient snd out of the cold;Was great to hop on to get few miles out of the way... was a cold day... normally prefer to stay above ground to not miss anything.., but it was great.  bc quick and efficient snd inexpensive...;4;January 6, 2018
Quick and easy way to Travel;Best way to get around Moscow quickly, the only hassle being the number of people using it. Never had to wait more than a few minutes for a train at any station we visited.;4;January 6, 2018
Metro stations with sculptures and paintings;Do not leave without visiting the famous Moscow metro stations, that is the underground circle line (brown line). On our way to one of the attractions,  we ride through all the 12 stations on the line and we saw sculptures, paintings displaying Russian history and culture. The metro ticket per ride is 55 roubles.  From station to station,  do not take the escalators upstairs to exit until all 12 stations are completed.  Google for the images of Moscow circle line stations for some images. If you want to take pictures, try to avoid peak hours. Metro station visits can be done at night or when it is too cold to be outside. It took us more than an hour to complete the circle. Besides the circle line, there are several more stations on other lines worth visiting too.;5;January 6, 2018
Key stations to view if doing it on your own;While you can pay for guided tours, it’s also fun to challenge yourself to use the Metro to find the key stations to check out. Get yourself a map with Russian and English — at first it is mind boggling but after a while you get the hang of it.  A Metro ticket only costs 55 rubles (provided you don’t exit, you can keep riding all the lines for as long as you like) and the ticket machines have an English feature so they are easy to buy (you tap the the on entry at the turnstile). We had a few hours free so, instead of doing a tour, we researched the most majestic stations on the net and found them ourselves — we then got off and on the trains to take photos and videos at the stations. The stations we looked at were Kievskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Prospekt Mira, Komsomolskaya, Kurskaya,   Ploschad Revolutsii, Belorusskaya and Mayakovskaya.;5;January 5, 2018
A must use;The Moscow Metro is highly efficient, clean, and always busy. It covers pretty much any area of the city that a tourist would be interested in visiting. Get yourself a multi trip card from one of the machines in any station (English menu option available), which will save you time and money each time you take a trip. Not that it’s expensive anyway. Sometimes it’s difficult to read the signs, but someone will generally offer assistance if you look lost.;4;January 5, 2018
A must do if you are in Moscow!;Very easy to navigate once you get the hang of things and an efficient way to get round town. Of course you also get to see some outstanding stations!;4;January 5, 2018
Line 5;On different stops on line 5 I saw a lot of art work from paintings in oil, to bronze statues, to paintings with small stone arrangements, line 5 is quite artful.;4;January 4, 2018
One of the best in the world!!;Visited here recently for holidays, this is definitely one of the longest, most intricate metro system in the world!!! It has over 16 different lines that you can take! From the two ring lines to the many north/south bound lines!! Fees wise only 55 rubles one way FROM ANYWHERE which means if you are taking the metro from the east most station to the west station of financial district/delovoy stantsi, then it's the SAME PRICE! So distance doesn't affect your cost, unlike in CHina which they charge you based on distance in Beijing and SHanghai metros! The interior is also beautiful and deep! Have chandeliers as well as monuments! Since Moscow has over 20 million people, it's clear that during rush hour it's SUPER CROWDED! even worse than Beijing and Shanghai! Overall though, this is very convenient form of transportation, especially from Sheremetyevo, Domodevo Airports to the city centre! Air express though cost 500 rubles, so in total is 550 rubles.;4;January 4, 2018
Fantastic! Worth a visit;We visited several stations on our visit to Moscow during the New Years Celebrations. All have some kind of artwork such as bronze statues, lots of different chandeliers, marble work, tiles the list goes on and on.;5;January 4, 2018
Stunning Metro System;The Moscow metro is stunning. It's not only one of the oldest and deepest metros in the world, it is also one of the most beautiful. It is well decorated and easy to navigate. Russian people don't smile much, but if you are lost, just ask for help, and they will come to your rescue. Admire the beautiful ceilings of most of the stations. Take the longest escalators in the world. The one at the Park Pobedy station is actually 126.8 meters long (world record). And take your time to listen to the singers or musicians in the stations, most of them are breathtakingly good.;5;January 4, 2018
Wonderful;It's a heritage metro. Amazing subway railway stations and it's the best way to travel. Language is a problem but Google translate comes to the rescue. Strongly recommend as the most efficient travel medium in Moscow.;5;January 4, 2018
Merto Station or museums;wow ...wow ...wowonce you enter in any metro station, i am dam sure that you will be get confused that where are you ,,,in a metro or in any museums ....;5;January 3, 2018
A must see for architecture and people watching;The metro system is really easy to use, you only pay 55 rubles for entering and you can use whatever line with as many changes as you like until you come out. I went through a few stations just to take photos and it was well worth it. The brown circular line seems to have the most picturesque stations. Some of them are like ballrooms, a must do when you're in Moscow!;5;January 2, 2018
Stunning and cheap - must see!;The Moscow Metro is (quite literally, according to international opinion) the most "beautiful metro in the world". The central metro stations built during Soviet times are very ornately decorated and unique. We visited some stations as part of a private tour (I recommend Happy Moscow!) and it was interesting to hear explanations about the different decorations/images/statues. For example, we were shown some of the "before" photos of mosaic artworks when Stalin still featured in them until his image was removed. Highly recommend visiting some of the metro stations while you are in Moscow, and even better if you do it as part of a tour or follow a guide book for more information about each station. Very cheap ($1 or less!) activity to do.;5;January 1, 2018
Best in the world;Moscow metro should not only be used for essential traveling.Take time to enjoy the individual beauty of each station.It is well worth taking 3 or 4 hours to view each station on the innermost ring.Get off the train at every station.All of the stations are worth the time taken.;5;January 1, 2018
Experience everyday Moscow;The metro is great if not a little confusing. You often can’t find the name of the station as it looks the same colour as the marble. This is not a buggy friendly place and is nightmare to get around with one as hundreds of steps and not always a escalator available.Fantastic architecture and well worth the experience;4;January 1, 2018
Oozing cultural History;Each station is unique, each station is better than the previous one. They run like clockwork with over 9 million people using the Metro everyday it is very important. True genius - u can get wherever u need to be.... great that the trains now announce in English for tourists. Recommend u do a station tour.;5;January 1, 2018
Historic circle is amazing;We decided we wanted to see all 12 stations on the brown circle. We bought a ticket and did some of the red line ( main line ) then moved onto the brown line hopping on and off at each station. Each station is beautiful with different architecture. The end of each one has a feature wall with a camera sticker on the ground showing you where to stand. A new train comes roughly every 3 minutes. Best to go outside rush hour. Each station has different lights, the history behind the designs is well worth looking into;5;January 1, 2018
A must see;I recommend the Brown Circle line it has the most hostoric stations.  Komsolmolskaya, Novoslobskaya, Kievskaya, Beloruskaya, Kransnoprinskaya are the best stations on this line.;5;December 31, 2017
Simple the most beautiful metro;Simply the most beautiful metro Iv seen in my life, so clean and well maintened it's a gem in Moscow for it's chandelier and the way has been designed.;5;December 31, 2017
Difficult;It is good way to travel but if you don’t know these letters it is very difficult to find right metro line. And there is very few staff who spoke english. Get ready to lost.;3;December 31, 2017
Very fast and pretty;I was amazed how efficient this metro was. Get a map with Russian and English names to Help you out but most of the stations/trains have English translations. A better way to travel the city as taxi is expensive and slow.;5;December 31, 2017
Who knew that subways could be so elegant;Took a guided tour of the subways by night and saw first hand the mosaics, chandeliers, statues and more. Spotless, safe, historical, impressive.A unique view and inside guide to some of the interesting decor that dominate several of the main subways in Moscow.;5;December 29, 2017
Convenient;Moscow Metro are best and very convenient to roam around Moscow!! Should carry a Metro Map which is in English. Moscow metros are very beautiful. Best for travelers as they have 1,3,5 day passes.;4;December 29, 2017
Gorgeous transit system;This is the most beautiful transit system i've ever seen.  I was amazed by the fact that we saw absolutely no graffiti on the walls.;5;December 27, 2017
The best metro in the world;A lot of beautiful and historical stations. It is a kind of underground museum. Worth to see but not at rush hours;5;December 27, 2017
1st class transport system;We were very impressed with:1) the different elaborate station designs - they are so nice that tours are organised to visit them2) the comprehensive coverage - you can jump from line to line using a circle line3) affordable - only 55 rubles to get you everywhere4) great service - we managed to somehow get directions from the service staff.Would recommend you to try.;5;December 27, 2017
The Only Way To Travel;I flew into Moscow and took the Aero-Express train from the airport to Belorussky Station.  The entire city center was jammed. Taking a taxi to our apartment near Moscow State University would have taken three hours. I paid about 90 cents, got on the metro, and was kissing my wife hello in 20 minutesMy family and I came to Moscow this weekend after spending 4 days in Helsinki. Same scenario. 20 minutes inside of 2 hour traffic jams. When you factor in the beauty of the stations, especially in the center, it’s a great bargain;5;December 26, 2017
Stunning way to get around the city;This is a must do/must see for any visitor to the City, as the beauty and cleanliness of the metro stations are something else. If you can - do a tour so that you can find out all about the history behind them - which dogs nose statue  to rub before an exam or how you know if you are going towards the centre (men’s voice on the announcement) or away from the centre (ladies voice!). I loved that there were no poster advertisements on the stations themselves - all looks very clean and tidy. Announcements are now made in English and there is an information board at the end of each carriage which scrolls around to English eventually. Word of warning - lots of stairs and escalators so not great if you have a stroller/ luggage or disability.  WiFi readily available.;5;December 24, 2017
Unexpected beauty;Took the Metro to downtown Mosow and stopped along the way to see this beauty. Brass sculptures of various heros and heroines of the revolution.;5;December 23, 2017
well worth a visit to the iconic satations. Dont forget your camera.;go one the underground, buy a cheap ticket and travel around to see the iconic stations with fantastic decorative ceilings and walls.;5;December 22, 2017
Remarkable Subway;Spotless and clean, huge chandeliers adorning the ceiling, beautiful mosaics and other decoration what a magnificent show for an underground. The system runs well and is well sign posted, however everything is in Cyrillic so an English map with both Russian and Cyrillic is essential so you can match the places on the subway. Takes a bit of effort but was easily worked out. Difficult to get the translated map we had one from Lonely planet and got an awful Photostat at the airport, but being enterprising managed to use public transport all over Moscow. Was efficient ,safe and clean and even the ticket sellers very helpful. I highly recommend being adventurous and using the subway. The people are well dressed and good looking and very polite. Expect to walk a lot as the city is designed for pedestrians, wear good walking shoes and take a rain coat. So many photo opportunities. The Museums magnificent. Cant wait to go back.;5;December 22, 2017
Most amazing place in Moscow;The most amazing thing about Moscow is its metro station. They are like palaces. Beautiful art work deep inside the earth.What an architecture. Simply amazing and very adventurous too as the station names are written in Russian Language. It was great fun exploring the stations.;5;December 22, 2017
Excellent underground palaces.....;Very rarely you will witness metro stations which are like palaces. And this you get to see in Moscow. Interesting and beautiful architecture and lot of history to it.;4;December 21, 2017
Moscow Metro - Must See!;So many stations have beautiful motifs with NO damage.  There is stain glass, large bronze statues, long tunnels of white, or red, or brown granite, gorgeous chandeliers, gold framed mosaic tile art, and so many more.;5;December 20, 2017
Imagine never experiencing using public transport?;Besides the incredibly arresting landmarks pulsating around Moscow’s core, being underground appealed to me just as much as being on top. Moscow’s metro is a life-changing experience! Public transport that is never delayed. Can you even begin to imagine what that must be like? The Moscow Metropolitan is the world record-holder for on-time departures and arrivals. According to the Moscow transport department, its accuracy equals 99.99%. Impressive! considering that the interval between trains during rush hour is only 90 seconds. Having the station names in both English and Russian goes a long way, following the number (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, etc.) of the lines instead of the colours will allow you to breeze through to any desired destination below ground. Known as the most beautiful subway in the world, the Moscow metro’s 44 out of 200 plus stations are listed as cultural heritage sites. Some of the brightly coloured murals on its walls should be protected in museums.;5;December 20, 2017
Very efficient;If you can't read Russian language not so easy to travel with. I am lucky with my colleague who can read the cyricic languageMetro is very efficient and fast and clean when Moscow is under snow. Much better than taxi;5;December 18, 2017
Wonderfull;Beautiful metro station, big and spacious. There is metro every 90 seconds, so you don't have to wait long.;5;December 18, 2017
Some beautiful stations and a great cheap way to get around;First and foremost this is a great way to get around Moscow. Although the trains are busy they are very frequent ( never had to wait for more than two minutes for a train). My tips for using the Metro are to use a map with the names of the stations in both Cyrillic and western alphabets because the signs in the stations are only in Cyrillic and secondly buy a ticket for multiple journeys.On a less practical note many of the stations are works of art in their own right and well worth visiting to see the sculptures, mosaics and paintings. These would be easy to visit on your own but we did a guided tour which was very enjoyable.;5;December 18, 2017
Stunning and very easy to do as the key stations are all within a couple of stops of each other;You hear about it, it is a functional metro and it was communist built, but again classic examples of the best of Soviet art as propaganda.  The main ones are all within a short hop of each other and the best thing is there is a train every 90 seconds!For example - Kievskaya - gold mosaics  Ploschad Revolyutsii - statues, Novoslobodskaya - backlit glassTake an hour or two and go see.;5;December 17, 2017
Very hectic;Very hectic experience but very efficient. Each journey costs 32 rubles. Puts the UK to shame. Lots of trains running all the time, very short wait.;4;December 17, 2017
Wonderfull architecture;Discovering the structural and well designed architecture of Moscow metro is like visiting a modern cathedral, dedicated to modernism and power of technology and aesthetic. Incredible experience;5;December 17, 2017
A must;You'll be amazed by these stations. Coming from New York it is impossible to compare, "first world (Moscow subway) vs 3rd world (New York).;5;December 16, 2017
A must do, even if you only do a couple of dtationsand a couple of stops;Largely constructed in the 1930s this is a classic amalgamation of a functioning utility with art and propaganda.Many of the stations are akin to museums or art galleries and a brochure or guide will suggest the best, though one of our party spent the best part of the Moscow free day simply riding around  and photographing each station.Some of the best have bronze or gilded sculptures showing tgraditional or patriotic hemes and gilded and painted ceilings showing civicpride and remembrance. Truly impressive. Visit one or two, or do an extensive tour. The choice is yours.;5;December 16, 2017
Wonderful experiance;I went to moscow on a grouo your during July-2017.It was really amazing to travel by metro at different levels and see a vast nerwork.it was a real experiance to see many paintings reflecting rich russian heritage and calture.But only thing is unlike todays metro the trains are very noisy and lack dia large fferent levels and sophistication.Only engineering marvel and largenetwork;5;December 14, 2017
town in the city;The Moscow subway construction is not only transport and utilitarian, but also artistic and architectural. Each station is unique. In the turmoil of travel, do not miss the chance to appreciate this beauty.;5;December 14, 2017
Efficient & safe;I took over 30 rides on the metro with only a couple of hiccups. Big tip do not catch train at peak hour with luggage. Also some stations have stairs. All in all a brilliant system with a great contrast of old and new trains and stations;5;December 13, 2017
‘Doors’ – Moscow metro thriller;You know what I find the biggest problem of the Moscow metro? The doors!If you think I am kidding, come to the Park Kulturi station, the red line. It doesn’t even have to be a stormy day; the inner air circulation has the power of a good aerodynamic wind tunnel! The door at the entrance can easily knock you down, if you are not careful. That’s why sensible Muscovites usually hold the doors for fellow passengers who follow them, especially for the elder and mums with kid-carts.Inside the wagon – did you notice that Muscovites mostly take the seats opposite to the doors? Same thing, same draughts – not a life danger, but if you ride for half an hour, you may very well catch a cold.Oh, and I nearly forgot something else about the doors – now those of the train. That’s serious: they are automatic. Automatic NOT in the way that they sense a person moving and react accordingly – just the other way round! These doors open and close automatically, and it’s your own responsibility not to have your foot or finger stuck between them, because in that unfortunate case you may well loose those useful  limbs altogether!Otherwise it’s perfectly safe – enjoy!;4;December 13, 2017
Feels like visiting a museum;It's so beautifully made and decorated.. Feels like a train in a museum.. Loved the experience.. And so structureed.. Might have a language issue.. Do have a Google translator on Ur phone and download Russian language..;5;December 13, 2017
Nice;Really weary easy to use, everywhere you can go fast and cheap, I bean in Moscow for 1 week, I buy thicket for week unlimited;5;December 11, 2017
Better than wherever!;Beautiful and great architecture. Clean (but sometimes homeless people inside smell bad).Quite safely. English-language navigation. People ready to help, especially to foreigners.;5;December 10, 2017
Highly effective transport system;Moscow Metro is highly effective mass-transportation system with very good coverage of the city. The trains are mostly modern, arrived frequently. The stations are well decorated, some timed over-decorated. You could confuse it with some museum.;5;December 10, 2017
Amazing;So clean and efficient remarkable sight marble everywhere. Clearly indicated on the trains and in the stations. Don't miss it if you are Moscow;5;December 10, 2017
Its very old but beautiful;The Metro is an experience in Russia dirty and old but the stations have some of the most amazing walls and lights keeping the old Russian mystery alive.;2;December 10, 2017
Fun;I highly recommend using the metro in Moscow. It was the most fun  part of my trip to plan my journeys by metro. Finding your way and changing stations however might be difficult if you can't read in Russian. The announcements within the train are already spoken in English as well (I heard it's a new thing, preparing for the FiFa World Championship), but the guidance signs at the stations are still only in Russian. Good luck!;5;December 9, 2017
No Russian? No Problem!;The Moscow Metro is well known for its beauty and the enormously deep escalators (that work better than in most modern subway systems!)  Since it's also very busy it can be a bit intimidating if you don't speak Russian, but that is no longer a problem.  The traditional station names are of course still there, but the modern cars have station announcements and system maps in Russian and English -- very easy to understand and use.  Get yourself a card with enough money on it so that you can just place it on the card reader and the gates will open.  Since the system is like New York that you only pay to get in, several people can even use the same card.  All in all, easy to use and best way to get around town!;5;December 8, 2017
Must try;It is the most beutiful undeground transport system. Some stations like museums or convenient up streets.;5;December 7, 2017
Great subway!;It's not only very comfortable transport, but also really great place to visit - especially centre metro stations. Do you think that it's a theatre on my fotos? No, it's metro station in Moscow!))New stations also very beautiful.;5;December 6, 2017
Beautiful;Wow , I’ve travelled a lot of different countries and his is without doubt the most beautiful and ornate underground or metro system I’ve ever seen . Pictures don’t do it justice . You could spend a day just travelling around these stations . Clean cheap efficient  what more do you need .;5;December 5, 2017
Classical architecture brought to life in an underground world...amazing...;These metro stations are testament to the Russian architecture in an underground world...clean, graffiti free (unlike most European cities) and service of staff is second to non.Even if you don't speak a little Russian (although it helps) any member of staff or local will assist you wherever possible.;5;December 4, 2017
Imperesive stations;The whole metro infrastructure is unbelievably massive, When you see the map there is a circle around the Moscow which was very interesting for me. There are many scenic and beautiful architectures features in all metro stations. Here is full of unique bronze sculptures. Besides, every 2 minutes the train comes without any delay. WOW I should not forget the free high speed internet inside the wagons.;5;December 3, 2017
Beautiful, good value and efficient metro;A great, affordable, and beautiful public transport system.Take a ride on line 5 circle line for some of the most beautiful places you'll find in a public transport system.Also great cost 55 RUB to go anywhere in the system;5;December 2, 2017
Don't miss this Gem;I would never think to take a tour of the Metro, but my Aunt, who is an ex-pat in Moscow insisted we needed to see it. We we're amazed at how each stop is unique, as well as stunning. Worth the time to do.;5;December 1, 2017
Very effective;I was impressed how fast and effective it was, there is literally one train right after another one, less than a minute apart.I would love to see titles in English.;5;December 1, 2017
Stunning;only advice I would give is your first time take a guide with you it does not cost much, Russia does not cater for tourists on the Metro but I would say you would be amazed with the structures and service. possibly the best service metro in the world.;5;December 1, 2017
Really the palace of the masses;Beautiful! The network of trains is impressive, as well as the wonderful station architectures! A must see!;5;November 30, 2017
Cleanest and safest metro in the world;Travelled a lot but never seen such a clean and safe underground(metro) in my life!Very well lit, no trash, some stations are like museums, some are modern high tech designs.  The best.;5;November 29, 2017
some station was nice but all the other area.;nice metro in some stations. but some metro was very old no english wrong colours in the signs.. after 2 days we understand how it works but they should.improove that;3;November 28, 2017
Best metro of all !;I was totally blown away by the beautiful Moscow metro !!!!!!To bad I do not read Russian, but I made good guesses of what direction to go, trains came every 3:d minute, the stations are BEAUTIFUL, you can not visit Moscow without riding the metro !;5;November 25, 2017
Moscow Metro;Very well connected..  I love to be again on this city metro.. Its friendly,  clean though many people dont speak English..;5;November 25, 2017
Great metro;This subway and metro stations in Moscow is great very imprsive i would like to take pictures of every meter square that much worth to be seeing;5;November 25, 2017
A marvel;We went through about 8 stations all decorated differently  some with  beautiful staues and some with marble and chandaliers weall ha to touch the dogs nose for luck. Kovely to see and Saint Petersbergs metro is similar as weel all beautiful;5;November 24, 2017
Best metro ever;I wish we had a beautiful public transport system like this!Travel on it and see the stations!Particularly loved sculptures and superstitions around them at revolutionary square;5;November 23, 2017
WOW;I used the metro on numerous occasion to get around the city, I found it to be extremely cheap and very reliable. A lot of the stations were so amazing to look at. Once you get a understanding of hoe the lines are connect then the metro system itself is brilliant.;5;November 23, 2017
Worth the experience;An extremely cheap method of travel and by far the quickest as the roads are chaos!  The architecture is amazing and begs the question as to why there was so much money and skill spent on the underground.? Be warned that the signs are not in English and very difficult to understand, there are announcers but they are difficult to hear on a crowded train. Plan your journey but don’t let this put you off.;5;November 23, 2017
Must see;My friend and I went Metro hopping on the afternoon of our arrival.if you intend to travel by metro during your stay, best to purchase a 2 or 3 day pass (300rbl for 3day) unlimited usage. We visited most of the stations on the brown line. Wonderful time of photo taking. Don't miss riding the escalator in the deepest station (70m)deep in Moscow on the blue line.;5;November 22, 2017
amazing experience;some stations are simply stunning. if you're in Moscow it's great to take a tour of the subway or do it by yourself. beautiful stations;5;November 21, 2017
large clean and beautiful;very nice peice of architecture, spacious, no advert on the walls, and quite an impressive style. really liked it;5;November 21, 2017
Interesting Designs in Stations;I asked our guide to show us a couple of the underground stations as I had read they were very interesting.  Apparently they were constructed in the 1930's and each was decorated differently.  We only had time to visit two, but they were beautifully done.  One had marble carvings of various occupations and workers.  The other was just marvelously art deco.  If I had more time, I'd have visited more of these lovely train stations.  Also, they were immaculate.;4;November 21, 2017
Must visit;Once you are in Moscow you should take Moscow metro ride. It's a mixed mood ride with history and modern textures. So clean and fast and every station interior is different. And cost effective too. Once you think to take ride do not forget to take troika card which works in metro, tram bus, trolley bus and bus.;5;November 20, 2017
Moscow Metro;Went for a guided tour of the metro with a small group it was fantastic, the detail of painting, marble, stone and statues needs to be seen to be believed especially for tube station;5;November 19, 2017
Grand;Marble, statues, paintings, chandeliers. Everything on a grand scale. It's easy to forget that this is a great transportation system - fast, efficient and cheap - it's also a feast for the eyes.;5;November 19, 2017
Beautiful;Very long stairs, beautiful corridors and ailes... Kievskaya and Revolution Square ( Not even trying to write that...) inside the metros, the station names are written in latin letters but in the stations, you' d better know the metro line numbers...;4;November 19, 2017
Beautiful and efficient;The metro offers a convenient and cheap way to get around with the added bonus of amazing sub terranean architecture and unbelievable public artworks. One note of caution the rolling stock is quite old and the braking is quite fierce so make sure you have a seat or a firm grip or you might end up in the lap of a surprised Moscovite as I can confirm from personal experience.;5;November 18, 2017
Great transportation and Great art;While a bit intimidated about riding this complex system I did get a tutorial from a tour guide and was very glad that I sampled a few lines. Tremendous artwork in some of the stations. Of those that I visited I found the Revolutionary Square station the best. Inspiring and interesting statues of soldiers, workers, farmers, children and animals supporting the Soviet cause in the 1930's. My favorite is the soldier and dog, with the dog's nose shinny from being rubbed millions of times over the years for good luck. A baby's foot and a rooster were also favorites of Metro commuters seeking good fortune. Other stations featured beautiful murals and other artwork. I regret that I only rode a few of the lines; I understand that the Circle Line has some of the best station artwork. Highly recommended. Note that for those of us not able to read Russian it can be confusing to follow the names in the Latin alphabet as they are in very small print. But as along as one has the exact Latin alphabet names written down and take to confirm (don't worry about missing a train - another will be along in 2 minutes) things should work out.;5;November 17, 2017
Amazing Moscow Metro;Tsar developed Metro in Russia. Some tracks are below the rivers and al deep as 90 meters below. The stations are like palaces. These are decorated with paintings, murals, wood carvings and art and culture. Must see.;4;November 17, 2017
I love Moscow Metro, it is the best of the best.;I love Moscow Metro, it is the best of the best, every time I am visiting I am amazed how much new expansions and new stations they build and added. Most important it runs on time most of the time, everyday, reliable and ticket prices are very cheap.;5;November 17, 2017
Visit a few!;We took a tour of the metro stations to view the incredible artwork and themes of each station.  They are immaculately maintained! (As a New Yorker, it puts ours to shame!);5;November 17, 2017
Could have spent much longer looking round.;First thing to say is how efficient the trains are.The stations that we saw in the city were incredible compared to other cities.Wish we had more time to explore further.At least we got to rub the dog’s nose!;5;November 16, 2017
Interesting and cheap;An interesting evening exploring several stops on the Metro, and you only pay once.  This has to be one of the most beautiful subway systems in the world, decorated with mosaics, stained glass, and bronze statues.;4;November 16, 2017
ITS A MUST DO IN MOSCOW;Each Station has a story to tell.  We took a guide and moved around from station to station.  There is a flat rate entrance fee to get into the Metro and after that you can travel anywhere. Some of the Decor is remarkable and all the stories are fascinating. Every train comes into its station every 2 mins and departs every 2 mins.  Stay alert and focus - its quick and its punctual.  Great outing.;5;November 15, 2017
Very old one;The stations are far away and wagons are very old and not very comfortable. Only few stops looks goods other looks like from 60s;2;November 15, 2017
Unexpected tourist delight;There are so many amazing things to see in the city centre metro stations, such as murals, paintings, statues, chandaliers etc, that every journy takes longer than expected, as you can't help stopping to take photos.  It is worth getting a multi-trip card at the beginning of your stay, as they are cheap and make life easier.  It is also well worth learning a bit of Russian, or at least the cyrillic alphabet before you arrive, as most of the signage is in Russian.  My wife bought a 'Learn Russian in 5 days' book which I spent 4 hours reading before I left, and that was a good start.;5;November 13, 2017
Spectacular underground architecture;Moscow is one of the best places to take the underground. Not only is the network very convenient, but most of the stations have extremely nice architecture. Travelling in the Moscow underground therefore is not only convenient, but is really a touristic attraction of the city. Don't miss it...;5;November 12, 2017
One of the most comprehensive metro systems in the world;The Moscow Metro system is magnificent. Much of the stations and lines were built during Soviet times and there are some magnificent stations which are tourist attractions in themselves. Over recent times the metro system has been greatly expanded and they now have two circle lines taking in more outlying areas. I believe that there is even a plan to added a third circle line even further out. It is surprising that it is also still so cheap to ride the metro, particularly if you get metro cards. Some of the stations can be very busy and a bit dirty but in the main the system is as good as any in the world. Well worth using to get about the city.;4;November 11, 2017
Underground world;I listened and watched many times on Tv about Moscow metro.And it s really a miracle of architecture ,each station is story for itself ,and it is really the deepest metro in the world .When the Russians started building they,did not complain either of space or the arrangement of cells. Everything works flawlessly.The only criticism is that everything is in Cyrillic and Russian ,so it is harder for tourist to get.;4;November 11, 2017
Over-advertised;Well, yes, it is fast, goes every 2 min, but it is not turistic attraction. It stinks inside, it's old stuffy and dirty. You can go and see some chosen stations, but after 2-3 you have already enough of being there. I recommend to use it as transport, but if you have not much time to visit Moscow, just skip it.;2;November 11, 2017
Must see experience;Many of the stations are unique & beautiful. More like a small palace than a station.If you are short of time take a trip on the inner circle line getting on & off various stations. Komsomolskaya, Prospekt Mira & Novoslobodskaya are recommended stops. Also make sure you take a detour to see Revolution Square (Ploshchad Revolyutsii). Bear in mind that trains run every few minutes so that if you see something during your journeys that looks interesting get off & have a look.;5;November 11, 2017
A wonderful experience;We were only able to visit 3 of the several subway stations with our local guide but each one was spectacular.  The scenes depicting history and sculptures, the mosaics and stained glass are sights to behold. The trains run precisely every minute and we were amazed at how busy the stations were after 8pm.  We were told that each station is decorated differently so wished we had more time to visit them all. For us this was a unique, well worth a visit experience.;5;November 11, 2017
It's OK, but we were expecting more.;We were kind of underwhelmed from the Metro stations in Moscow.We were expecting lavish luxurious-looking stations and found out most of them are ordinary, with a couple of lovely exceptions.While the trains themselves include both English and Cyrillic names of stations (including audio announcements in both English and Russian), the stations themselves have absolutely no English signs at all and are a maze of Cyrillic. Bare that in mind while planning your trip in the Metro.Having said that, after a while, you get accustomed to the Cyrillic alphabet and successfully navigate the Metro system.;3;November 10, 2017
Amazing;Well thought out and sympathetic and meaningful display of art and sculpture underground. Each station is purposefully depicted.  We went with a guide - well advised.  Very very busy - apparently used by 9 million people a day.  Trains every minute and announcements of station in russian and english however will take a bit of getting used to.;5;November 10, 2017
Unexpected gem in Moscow!;Modeled after the metro system in Paris, this is the way to travel in the city. Each station has its unique style and decor so a tour of the metro stations is a "must do" when in Moscow. As you step into each new station, you are greeted by paintings or statues or frescoes or... Each holds a beautiful new surprise.;5;November 9, 2017
History and art under the ground;The metro in Moscow is first of all super cheap. The announcements in the metro are now also in English. Every minute you have a new metro so please dont stress. The architecture is amazing and so much history. Its also very safe and extremely clean. You can do it on your own but a guide can tell you many interesting facts.;5;November 9, 2017
rush hour is still rush hour;when it is busy it is hard to appreciate all of the aesthetic design and high quality construction. Go when the crowds are less to imagine grand balls taking place there:);5;November 8, 2017
fantastic mosaics;When in Moscow - certain underground station are mandatory to visit. Especially the Belarus station a absoluteyl necessary to visit.;5;November 8, 2017
Art Gallery;A must see and do in Moscow. I was all day in the metro, it was one of the most great days in my life. Every single station is different and unique with an amazing Architecture.;5;November 8, 2017
A magificent modern relic of passed times;This piece of metro certainly deserves several visits to appreciate in different lines and stations the details of a stylised realistic art, which includes some humorous details. This time, I was too much in a hurry to appreciate them all. Yet you should absolutely try to find them.;5;November 7, 2017
A must do;Set aside a day just to do the Metro.  Seriously.  For a ridiculously low price you can get a day travel anyhow ticket and just jump off and on the metro visiting all the stations.  Each one is different.  They are vast and exquisite, some more than others.  The art deco is just beautiful.  Don't bother with a guided tour, your book will tell you as much plus you can spend longer doing it.  It doesn't take long to work out directions of travel and translate the cyryllics just do it.  You won't regret it.;5;November 7, 2017
A must do in Moscow;A must do in Moscow! It captures the history and the culture of the place. With original Mosaic artworks. It is an amazing mix to see the ornate stations with the efficiency of the Moscow metro put together.;5;November 7, 2017
Best in the World;The metro is getting better and better.  Announcement now in both Russian and English and signage is also changing to both language.Very cheap way to get around the city -- sometimes also it is faster then a taxi.Very clean and safe.;5;November 7, 2017
Palatial!;One of the highlights in Moscow is visiting the metro.  With it's palatial feel you forget you are in the metro until you hear the train coming.;5;November 7, 2017
Interesting and free...;Making photos in the Moscow metro - it is very interesting and the most important - it is free! It is the best to travel through the old stations, built in the 1950s - 1960s, they are the most beautiful. Find out which stations are old, and which ones can not be found out in advance through Wikipedia. If it is no way to make a search, then all the stations in the center, in the Moscow Kremlin area, are old and beautiful! The most interesting are "Komsomolskaya", Ploschad Revolutsii"and "Novoslobodskaya". Besides them, there are about a dozen others, not less interesting, but these stations should be inspected and photographed first!;5;November 6, 2017
Unlike any metro in the world...;This was quite a highlight for us when we visited Moscow. Impeccably beautiful , works of art and you would be amazef at the history behind each stop. You have to visit it to appreciate it.;5;November 5, 2017
A must to see;Could not believe the stations ther were so ornate with chandeliers paintings and mosiaics and the trains were clean and punctual, as it was a guided tour have no idea what the cost of travel is;5;November 5, 2017
Only of its kind in the world !;Completely taken by its grandeur and architecture of its stations. So deep into the grounds and every station itself felt like a monument to see. Mind you every metro station here has a different chandelier design with art work depicting some message or story. Spellbound!;5;November 5, 2017
easy to use and each station an attraction;brilliant. each station a work of art - and with the streets in moscow - so clean. easy system to use and on time.;5;November 4, 2017
The way to travel in Moscow and see the stations;The Moscow Metro is clean, fast and convenient. Expect it to be crowded with Muscovites! It helps to read Russian in negotiating its various stations and routes, but the stations are world famous for the variety and interest of the interior architecture.;5;November 3, 2017
Cheap and clean;Great way to beat the heavy Moscow traffic. Cheap and clean and regular. Some unusual stations in the centre;4;November 3, 2017
Stations are art galleries;Just spent a week in Moscow and was very impressed how easy it was to use the Metro “subway” system. Every 90 seconds there is a train and the locals say that 9M people are moved each day. The stations, platforms, and trains all have signs and announcements in both Russian and English. The trick is to know where the more decorated stations are located to take advantage of viewing the art. The cost is 55 Rubles (less than $1USD) and transfers to all the lines are included in that fare. Using the Metro is Moscow requires the same skills as in New York City, London, Chicago, or Paris, so if you ride public transportation yours skills can be used around the world. The cars are clean and well maintained, just hold on because they zip right along the tracks. Free WiFi is available at the stations and on the trains.;5;November 3, 2017
A fantastic experience;The metro system is relatively easy to use and now announcements are also in English. The décor and designs of the stations are incredible.;5;November 2, 2017
After massive renovation Moscow Metro became better;Russian capitol is being prepared for World Soccer Championship 2018 and Moscow Metro is not an exception. Last couple years it has been renovated and now looks very ...freshly - thanks to completly replaced information system and new vestibules.Old station still look awesome and are the must-see touristic place. There is informing in english in carriages and all major sighns in english too.So, buy ticket and enjoy unrepeatable and unique design of the most beautiful metro in the world!P.S. Try to avoid morning and evening traffic pandemonium :);5;November 1, 2017
Benchmark for the rest of the world;A visit to the Moscow metro is absolutely essential on any trip to Moscow. The design of the stations and the Soviet era art is remarkable. I remain just as impressed with my recent visit as I was on my first trip to Moscow in 2002. In addition to the aesthetics is the efficiency of the system - really remarkable when you consider how old it is. Puts many modern metros to shame.;5;November 1, 2017
A ride on a Soviet-era Metro train;Waiting at Sparrow Hills station (on a bridge over the river, incidentally, so accessible from Gorky Park and the north bank) I was surprised when a vintage 1935-style train pulled in. My companion explained that the Metro was running some of the original trains - though I never worked out why. On closer inspection it didn't seem very different from the current ones, which might tell you more about the age of the normal rolling stock than anything else, but it was a nice novelty. I didn't check whether the vintage carriages had the free wifi which is such a surprise to anyone accustomed to the London Underground.;5;October 31, 2017
A must for all tourists;Go there if you only have 24 hours in Moscow. It’s also one of the reasons I visited Moscow. We went with a guided tour which was worth every penny.  I suppose we could explore it on our own but it would have taken much longer than our 2 hours tour due to language barrier. We visited 5/6 metro stations. They are all different in design and so true to the pictures which is not always the case.  Excellent.;5;October 31, 2017
Metro Masters;After reading the books by Dmitri Glukovsky (post apocalyptic survival novels) and hearing about it, this was a definite must when visiting Moscow. While you certainly can visit by yourself (a one off, all you can travel ticket was only 55 Roubles ($1.20AU)), the better way is by a guided tour. This way, you can visit the best of the stations in the least number of changes. It does run from about 25m to 80m underground, but is full of mosaics, frescoes, marble and also 8 million people daily. It is easily the cleanest I have been on, but for the history and majesty, it should be a must when visiting Moscow.;5;October 31, 2017
Cheap, reliable and an experience that shouldn't be missed.;We stayed about 40 minutes out of Moscow for a week and used the metro every day.  It was super cheap and easy to use. Just ask at a counter for a card that you can top-up and tap each time you go into the metro.  It's a fixed price regardless of hour far you go or how long you stay in the metro.  We just got one card and tapped each family member as they passed through then my husband tapped himself at the end.  Beware the trains a very noisy! But that's part of the charm.  They look old but, in fact they are relatively new.  They prefer to keep the same design and recycle the seats and fittings.   The metro stations themselves are fascinating.  The escalators are the longest and steepest that we've ever traveled on and the subways are simply stunning.;5;October 29, 2017
Absolutely astounding;Moscow Metro is by far the most impressive and certainly the most beautiful underground's I think on the planet. These places are not just underground stations to simply rush through but to stop and take in the unique beauty of every station as each is different to the last. The detail that has gone into the ceilings and even the design of the lights, it really did at times feel like I was in a museum or a palace. Would be so proud if the underground's were like that in London.;5;October 28, 2017
The best metro network;Everything is just perfect about Moscow metro.Just download the app and ask people if you are not sure which side of train should be boarded.Follow nameson platforms to change platforms for different routes in same station.They are targeting more stations before The FIFA world cup 2018.Starting from Billionaires to normal people- everyone travels in it. So just have a wonderful ride there.Rides cost 55 or 110Rubles.Or you can buy an unlimited Troika Pass at 2000 valid for a month. Unlimited Troika can be used in Buses, Trolley Buses, Bullet trains and Metro. Its a city pass.;5;October 28, 2017
Not handicap freindly;Moscow Metro has great stations with lots of fun décor. Very efficient system with frequent trains. Easier for non-Russian speakers in newer cars with better signage and English announcements. You could spend a day or more seeing all of the interesting stations. Very clean. But if you have reduced mobility it can be a challenge. No elevators and only a few stations with an escalator to street level.;4;October 28, 2017
Beautifully made;Really beautifull metro in comparison to other metros. All stations are unique. I recomend going for an 1-2 tour while visiting most of stations.;5;October 28, 2017
Great, but don't know how the locals manage it while wearing all their cold weather clothes;We did a metro tour in October, when it was already chilly outside. A tip would be to try and do this without too many layers of clothes, as we were forever stripping off layers when we were in the metro and then putting them back on again outside the stations. It was a pain carrying armfuls of jackets and jumpers while in the metro system itself. Curiously, the locals seem to use the metro while still wearing all their layers whereas we were dripping with sweat if we wore ours.;4;October 27, 2017
a must have seen;I have never seen a metro like the Moscow one - every station looks like a very fancy living room  - maybe that's why they were built in the first places.... to serve as shelters during wartimes? definitely have a look and take a guided tour to get it all!;5;October 26, 2017
Really is a "Must See";We saw 5 metro stations as part of a Moscow Private Tours guided tour. They are amazing - each one themed differently. Some metro stations "only" have loads of marble but some of them are simply amazing - Revolution Square with its bronze statues, others with stained glass, another depicting the history of Russia in mosaics, another with pictures of the Ukraine etc. Loads of chandeliers and marble .... awesome.;5;October 26, 2017
Wooooowwwww;No transport system quite like it!  Explore and enjoy it. My favourite was the set of stained glass windows.;5;October 26, 2017
Great way to travel;The Metro is another must see and do. The décor is fantastic with different themes at each of the older stations. Chandeliers, statues, murals, trains that arrive every 2 minutes and all for 80p a trip no matter how far you travel.;5;October 26, 2017
Quick, cheap transport with amazing architecture;The Moscow metro is probably the best designed metro system in the world, in terms of spread and system design. You can go pretty much anywhere in the city with it. Architecture especially near the city center is amazing, with each one having a story behind the design. Rush hour can be packed, though, and the stations are very deep, and transfer between lines can include a lot of walking. Be sure to study some Cyrillic alphabet before you come, it will be a lot easier to read the signs to tell you which station and direction to go.;5;October 26, 2017
The most beautiful subway in the world!;Hard to not hop on the metro if you do much travleing in Moscow. All of the stations are beautiful, covered floor to ceiling in marble, polished stone columns, and amazing sculptures and statues. Very clean, impressive!;5;October 25, 2017
Huge, but old style problems...;Crowded in peak time and overheated in fall and winter. Hard to follow no directions in case you do not speak/ read language;1;October 24, 2017
Not just transport;If you don't have a local guide to get you through, take a subway tour. Each station has a story to tell -- sculptures, mosaics, murals, chandeliers, etc.;5;October 24, 2017
Beautiful decoration inside the Metro system;Gorgeous Chandeliers and paintings etc, The trains are coming on times.  The metro system is very good in Moscow.;5;October 22, 2017
Amazing!;I booked this tour with Moscow Free Tours via Viator. You get to ride the moscow metro with a professional guide explaining 8 of the most importanr metro stations in Moscow. The metro ticket was included in the price of the tour.The meeting point for the tour is located near the kremlin and it is very easy to get there.The guide was very friendly and all the time looking after the group in each and every station. I highly recommend it! Thank you very much guys! I enjoyed it very much!!;5;October 21, 2017
Very impressive!!;This was my second visit in Moscow and in metro stations. The first time we had a tour guide and we were in a hurry!! This time we bought a 3 days ticket for transportation and we stopped in every station in the ring line number 5 and enjoy every minute. The stations are very impressive like a palace!! Worth the visit!!;5;October 21, 2017
Subterranean splendour;A short visit but the nonetheless fascinating to see first hand the extraordinary grandeur of the stations. Beautifully maintained and not buried behind layers of crap adverts - what a contrast to the London Underground.;5;October 21, 2017
Don't forget to take the metro;It is beautiful how much beauty and art you can see in Moscow's metro stations, you will wonder if it is a gallery or an old interior of king's castle, but in fact it is the Metro station, definitely try it at least for one ride.;4;October 21, 2017
Beautiful Stations, a must see.;There are several stations with different themes and architectural styles. Each is unique and beautiful in addition to their history. They are impeccably maintained.;5;October 20, 2017
Underground Decor;Simply unbelievable beauty of the Moscow Metro including statues and ceiling adornment. Fabulous...nt to be missed!;5;October 20, 2017
Go with a guide!!;Unless you can decipher Russian go with a guide. We did not find the metro easy to navigate, although you can get on at every station, you can't get out at the same station on the way back! Some of the stations are very beautiful, some in art deco style too. Cheap and efficient but avoid rush hour at all costs.;5;October 19, 2017
Old and new;Fast modern trains and beautiful stations where you can just get off and enjoy the station whether it be chandelered as in Belorrusskaya of Mosaics as in Mayakivskaya or revolutionary bronzed peasants at Red Square metro. Staff all speak some English and are incredibly helpful, transport is cheap, dont miss this!!;5;October 19, 2017
We are doing a subway tour? Are you crazy?;Moscow's Metro (also known as the People's Palace), is a hidden gem of underground museums that you simply must visit if you travel to Moscow.Built in the 1930's by Stalin it is one of the world's biggest, busiest  and densest underground  in the world. Approx 9.7 MILLION PEOPLE use it DAILY. Stalin's view, obviously, was to built the most beautiful network possible and he certainly succeeded.You must visit...Novoslobodskaya Metro StationMayakovskaya Metro StationElektrozavodskaya Metro StationPloshchad Revolyutsii Metro StationAnd be prepared to be amazed.  Confused a little too...everything is in Russian...but well worth the trouble...and its hard to get lost. Or take a tour...just don't miss it!;5;October 18, 2017
Amazing stations;We stopped off to have a look at this station as it is so beautiful. Its very cheap to travel on the metro in Moscow. 50 rubles per trip and you can make it even cheaper by buying a 20 ride card;5;October 18, 2017
Man made wonder in Matro;Metro Moscow is efficient mode of transport, affordable and dependable. But the best things is some metro station are extremely artistic and beautiful. One could join Metro Tour, but you could also go to your own like what I did. Just buy one day ticket priced around 110 rubles. Many beautiful stations located in brown circle line, some in green and light green. I would suggest you browse internet first and note down the recommended stations. Mark down these stations in the Metro map. From there you plan your visit. You could also plan along visiting Izmailovsky handicraft market by getting off Izmailovskaya station. The train has roughly interval of 3 minutes, hence you would not waste your time in one station by waiting too long. There are around 10 lines indentified by colour (and number). When you have to change line, find the line through the number mark on the floor. And follow the arrow. The metro Station is not too crowded (only after metro stops), minutes later those are relatively quiet, so you could enjoy the beauty, arts, statues, paintings at your own time and pace.;5;October 18, 2017
Interesting;We bought a subway ticket and stopped at various stations recommended by the hotel.   Several were on the circle (ring) line. Several stations had crystal chandeliers.  Several stations had mosaics idealizing the Russian worker, or Lenin.;4;October 17, 2017
Don't miss!;Wow!  The moscow metro is very efficient and feels safe at all times.The ornate stations along the way are superb, just watch where you are going whilst walking around looking up with your mouth open !;5;October 17, 2017
Beautiful subway with lots of "revolutionary fervor".;Our guide took us on a tour of the Moscow subway and explained the history, art, and political context of the often lavish stations.;4;October 17, 2017
CLASSIC;We made a special trip to go check out the subway. we heard it was beautiful and it lived up to our expectations. There was artwork, statues and marble walls and floors.;5;October 16, 2017
Moscow Metro - work of art;Each Moscow Metro station has a different theme. We took a tour of about 10 different stations and each one was a work of art;5;October 16, 2017
Not to be missed - Moscow Metro;The Moscow Metro is not to be missed, especially if you are a New Yorker who rides the subway - you'll be green with envy. It's elegant and differently decorated stations are fascinating.  Hire a guide to bring you to the most elaborate stations. It's clean, fast, and easy to get around on your own too.;5;October 16, 2017
Stunning;The stations are totally worth a trip up and down the line be too see ornate marble decorations, all of which are different in each station. All are immaculately clean; GB could learn a thing or two!;5;October 16, 2017
Excellent way to move around;An excellent way to travel in Moscow, especially taking into consideration that the car traffic is a mess. A nice feature is also that some of the stations are really nice with paintings, decorations and nice lamps.We bought a three day ticket for about 6 €, so it is cheap too.;4;October 16, 2017
An amazing experience!!;Absolutely spotlessly clean and each station is a gallery of art works- pantings, mosaics, stained glass etc. Easy to get lost with all the Cyrillic writing! We took a tour and well worth it.Trains run every couple of minutes - no delays here!!;5;October 15, 2017
Must tour while in Moscow;Really amazing tour of the metro. We actually ended up doing our own tpur coz 1 metro ticket was only 55 RUB per person.We stopped at the main stations of the guided tour which cost around 1900 RUB per person.I was quite in awe at the magnificence  of each station. Really beautiful and just breathtaking.;5;October 15, 2017
An unforgettable cultural and surreal experience.;The Metro, which began operating in Moscow in 1935 is really a must see. It is very busy and Muscovites stoicly travel to work each day, not saying very much. The powerful trains are impressively on time but there are very few English signs and asking locals for platforms numbers and exits may not work, as few speak English. Going with a tour guide, or a local who will show you the best stations to see is recommended.  Stalin decreed the building of the Metro system to address Moscow’s lack of adequate public transportation in the early 1930s. The underground system was built in less than three years, and opened 1935, with nearly 300,000 Soviet citizens boarding the new transportation service. It was mainly designed by engineers recruited from the London Underground but Soviet workers did all the labour and the stunning art work. In this regard Mayakovskaya is considered one of the most beautiful stations, featuring columns faced with stainless steel and pink rhodonite, marble walls, a brilliant flooring pattern of white and pink marble, and 35 niches, one for each vault, a total of 34 ceiling mosaics by Alexander Deyneka. The Metro system was itself a form of propaganda and in this station passengers could look up and see the bright Soviet future right above. For us one of the most moving stations was Ploshchad Revolyutsii where a total of 76 sculptures depict the variety of people of the Soviet Union, including soldiers, farmers, athletes, writers, aviators, industrial workers, and schoolchildren. The Metro is very efficient and announcements are made in English and Russian, clearly spoken. Cost is minimal of about 110r/$1.00/.75 euro for one stop or ten. An unforgettable cultural and surreal experience.;5;October 15, 2017
Beautiful metro!;The metro was very beautiful. The stations look quite different, but are all nice. Marble, crystal chandeliers, statues and paintings.;5;October 15, 2017
Fantastic metro;It is an experience. Trains run every 30 seconds. The Wagons are relatively clean (especially if we consider the huge number of passengers they move around). Some stations are true pieces of art.;5;October 14, 2017
Worth going for a ride;My wife took me around Moscow, we did not go onto a tour, but i found most of the station, beautiful to see.;4;October 14, 2017
Some stunning stations but go with a tour guide.;Worth spending time finding the best stations, but beware, it is very confusing.Some stations do not have an exit, so you could find yourself back tracking on stations.Not easy to find stations as just about everything is in Russian, with very little English signs. We spent a considerable amount of time asking locals where the platforms nos were, and how  to get out!Also, avoid busy times, so after 10 and before 4.00,I would strongly suggest, going with a tour guide, who will show you the best stations to see.The cost is very reasonable 110r for one stop or ten;3;October 14, 2017
Travelling with friends;Worth the experience even though it's very busy.  The underground is amazing and appears efficient. Well worth a visit;4;October 14, 2017
Excellent metro;This system has been in operation for a number of years and is essential for getting around Moscow as the traffic there is horrible. The system now offers bilingual messaging in russian and english;4;October 13, 2017
Mind blowing!;We thought the St Petersburg Metro was spectacular but this takes it to a whole new level. We did a tour of 5 stations - starting at Belorusskaya, then Novoslobodskaya, Komsomolskaya, Kievskaya and finishing at the new Park Pobedy at Victory Park. Everything from stained glass, marble, mosaics, murals in the Soviet Realism style complete with chandeliers. Even the new line stations have marble arches. Would suggest later in the evening for a visit as it should be considerably less busy.;5;October 13, 2017
Surreal experience;The Moscow metro is one of the most historic and beautiful sights to see when in Moscow - each station is a museum and an art studio of its own. There are beautiful sculptures and paintings and the entire experience is out of this world. The metro itself is very efficient and easy to use (even for tourists who cannot follow the Russian language) - if possible do take a few extra stops to look around its varied metro stations!;5;October 12, 2017
Great experience;Super exciting and easy to use. The train stations are works of art, full of history, statues, marble. The tri s are easy to use, very efficient and timely. Announcements are made in English and Russian, clearly spoken.  Cost is minimal about $1.00/.75 euro. Loved the experience and would repeat it.;5;October 12, 2017
Wow;If you travel by metro visiting the sights, you cannot help but visit some outstandingly beautiful metro stations.;5;October 12, 2017
Beautiful!;This is the most beautiful metro system I have seen so far. Definitely worth a tour through the different stations.;5;October 12, 2017
Incredible;The workmanship and detail that has gone into some of these stations is amazing from the Frescos to the Stained Glass, Bronzes and mosaics.. Just wow for a METRO..;5;October 11, 2017
Moscow subway;I’ve been wanting to email, but didn’t have email address. So your hotel fell ‘short’ of my expectations. I’m sorry cause the area was nice. But the personnel were not friendly. The buffet was nicely stocked with variety of great foodsRegards,Maria;5;October 11, 2017
Amazing Metro;Like any big city, Moscow has a lot of people. I must give them credit however for their ability to move all these people around successfully. Much of it stems from they're amazing Metro System. Why do I say amazing? You would have to see it to believe it. The Metro reaches pretty much all aspects of the city and is accompanied by a huge circular pattern around the central aspect of Moscow. The system is underground of course, but the amazing thing is it's several levels deep. You can get off of one train go down another level and get onto another one. It's very organized and fast and surprisingly clean. On top of all that it's actually beautifully decorated in statues and colored stone and the lighting is interesting as well. The cost of the Metro is surprisingly affordable and you can pretty much ride all day long on one entry fee.The only downside is one would need the ability to read a little bit of Cyrillic Russian to effectively get around.;5;October 11, 2017
Nice and clean and some times very crowded;The stations are nice and all different. They are clean and beautiful. The trains run exactly in time. During rush hour it can be very crowded. Plan your trip and be able to read the signs and announcements. Nowadays the station names are announced in English also, but the additional information not always.;4;October 11, 2017
A metro with spectacular internal architecture;You may have heard that the Moscow metro is amazing, and it really is. Externally nothing particular but the internal architecture, particularly on the central circular, brown, line is amazing. Very frequent trains so just hop off view the station and hop back on to the next train. At 55 roubles a trip, you pay when you go in and can stay inside the system travelling around and hopping on and off all day if you want to, it is great value. One thing worth noting s that if two or three lines cross, the same crossing station will have a different name for each line.;5;October 11, 2017
Amazing - a must visit;We took a guided tour of the metro to make sure we saw the best of the stations. We were not prepared for the sheer palace like effort the Russians has put in to them. Simply magnificent. Travelling on the London Underground on the Monday was just not the same!;5;October 11, 2017
Beautiful believes;It is  quite interesting to see how real the distalinization of Russia became where his presence was vanished from all the art on the metro and replaced with more widely accepted symbols of their culture. Apart from beautiful beyond words the stations are part of the city's collective conscious and it is amazing to watch people travelling all around, walking at high speed, minding their own businesses but stopping at some brass statue or glass column, quickly touching it on the way to the next train, to obtain the gods favours, love, fertility, prosperity, harmony. So incredibly interesting!;5;October 10, 2017
They don’t make them like this ofyen;Stunning stations. Worth having a guide to take you around the Metro the first timeTo go to the main stations with superb decoration and architecture. Fabulous;5;October 10, 2017
Confusing but gorgeous;I think this is the first time I didn't mind getting lost in a metro-station. While finding the right train and the correct platform can be a bit of a challenge, at least you will have some stunning architecture to look at while you're lost! Just remember to set aside some extra time for exploration (voluntary or not).;4;October 10, 2017
Clean, fast and efficient;Wow a subway system that literally does not stink. Remarkably clean, fast and efficient subway lines. Some stations are beautiful but all are clean. A great example for other large metropolitan subways, not to mention inexpensive. Shame on NY MTA.;5;October 9, 2017
A Must Do;The Moscow metro is like walking through an art gallery.  It is the bargain of the century.  You pay 55 Rubles for an entry ticket and can go anywhere on the system on that ticket until you choose to go above ground again.  Most the the really amazing stations are on the brown No 5 (Circle) line the blue No 3 line.  The trains run approximately every 1.5 minutes and each station has a clock showing the time elapses since the last train left.  It is easy to navigate your way around the system and the station name is communicated in both Russian and English but, so long as you've done your homework beforehand, you will know which stations to alight and enjoy before proceeding onto the next.  Such a wonderful experience.;5;October 9, 2017
Very grand;We just went down to see what it was all about. Very ornate and special to look at. We bought a ticket, which was really cheap but ended up walking to the next stop- just to see the stations.;4;October 8, 2017
Underground city of the Soviet Empire.;The central stations look like a museum. A lot of people. Almost no facilities for disabled people. A big plus, then that the cheapest fare. This is a historical place.;4;October 8, 2017
Absolutely Stunning.;Well you really have to see it to believe it, spotlessly clean and just beautiful, truly you would think you were in a museum or gallery.;5;October 8, 2017
Efficient;The largest gap between trains was 90 seconds. Not much time to get on and off. Very efficient. Roubles necessary to pay. Stations well worth stopping off at to look at the decorations. Nobody smiles;4;October 7, 2017
Great Metro;You can spend whole day in the metro line network of Moscow. Clean and very interesting to visit many stations;5;October 7, 2017
People's palaces;This is a must do when in Moscw or St. Petersburg. We were told by our tour guide that they call these metro stations "palaces" and that alone makes the citizens treat the stations with utmost care and respect. They are aptly called palaces because the architecture can rival some of the best buildings in the world. Its amazing to see the different motifs. I was impressed by the security as well. You can see police patrolling and I am almost sure there were plain clothes guards as well. We used the metro extensively while we were there.;5;October 7, 2017
Best in the world;Trains arrive in stations at every 1 minute and a half, crowded but fluid, clean and fast. The stations are unique, every one on the Circle line (number 8) is a little museum. With Marble and giant chandeliers on the walls and ceilings, every one is half a century old and depicts an important part of the russian history.;5;October 7, 2017
Easy and cheap;Besides the classic beauty of this subway, it offers a good and inexpensive means of locomotion. The ticket costs 55 rubles, they do not charge any extra charges per bag. In addition you can use it to get to the buses that lead to the airports. Check the maps on the internet or even at the stations and there indicate the stations and the number of buses (55 rubles).;5;October 7, 2017
It was raining so on the Metro it is;So i have been on it three times. It is quite spacious inside. Announcements inRussian and english. The riders polite.But the attraction are the stations. Indescribable. I would be happy snapping photos if i weren't so self conscious.Hanging lights and curved ceilings, quaint old flooring, and sometimes to get to the platform, you plunge many tens of meters underground via the escalator.Fare is 55 rubles.;5;October 7, 2017
A must see when visiting Moscow.;We only travelled the metro to look at the ornate stations. The stations have to be the most architectural pleasing that I have seen. Beautifully painted murals and stained glass decoration throughout.;5;October 7, 2017
Incredible metro;Coming from Toronto which has an anemic subway system, this was amazing.  The stations we saw were works of art:  statuary, chandeliers, mosaics, frescoes to challenge museums.  Our tour guide Maria was wonderful, explaining the history of every station we visited.  And their cars come every 75 seconds....so efficient!  This is a must-see for any visitor to Moscow.;5;October 7, 2017
Convenient and fast out of rush hours;We used the metro extensively between 10 and 4 and found it very quick and convenient.  It may also be okay in rush hour but we avoided it on advice from a friend. We downloaded an app and found that the metro was a great way to get around.  The metro is clean and surprisingly well decorated. The people are very polite letting you get off before you enter. The trains run very frequently so there’s no rush to catch one. If you miss it the next one will be bye in two minutes or so.;5;October 7, 2017
Not to be missed;Each of the Moscow Metro stations are a museum by themselves. Clean and efficiently run. Doors open for just 40 seconds to let everyone off and then on - must be quick. We travelled between the two stations under Red Square - one with Chandeliers and the other with life size bronze sculptures. Not to be missed;5;October 6, 2017
Such a refreshing change from the London Underground, cheaper and...;...with much faster and more frequent trains. Buy a daily travel ticket Yediniy Carte from the metro Kassa counter staff each day (I bought two, used the second on the next day) and you won’t need to worry about your Moscow travel, tube, bus or tram, it’s all covered. I didn’t bother with the Troika Card. Ploschad Revolyutsii has the famous statue where if you touch the soldier’s dog you will have good luck. Let’s see !;5;October 6, 2017
A fabulous experince;This is no place to rush through and get away in a jiffy.The Moscow metro stations are ornate beauties with Baroque as well as Deco architecture with painted murals, stained glass and great sculptures which only a great palace can boast of. Each station has its own design and architecture unique to it.A journey through them is like the experience through a museum or a palace.Never ever miss this.;5;October 6, 2017
Cathedrals of modernism;It’s fascinating how these architectural marvels areal much integrated into everyday life of the metropolis. Make sure to go by Metro when you are in Moscow. It’s safe, clean and reliable. Trains run every 2 minutes. If you don’t speak Russian you may however have a hard time navigating at some places where there are only Russian signs. English ones are being deployed right now.;4;October 5, 2017
Need improvement with English signs;Much better than few years ago but still need better English signs and instructions. Clean and safe at my opinion;3;October 5, 2017
Absolutely stunning metro system;We took a tour of a few of the stations with our Guide and also travelled on our own.  Each station has a different theme, they are very grand compared with stations in other countries, well worth visiting but mind the doors they close very quickly!!;5;October 5, 2017
Moscow metro;Gorgeous murals on the walls, statues and crystal chandeliers. Astonishing all these were done in the 30's. Make sure to see the metro at night -with a guide.;5;October 5, 2017
Moscow Metro;Must visit to see beautiful architecture of the stations. They have a number of stations with lots of art and decor.;5;October 5, 2017
Breathtaking;I had seen photos of the Moscow Metro but nothing prepared me for its stunning beauty. I literally could have spent days here and I still wouldn't have seen everything.;5;October 5, 2017
Amazing decoration for Metro stations.;The different stations are all different in their decoration, some are all white in decoration which is a tradition of certain areas of Moscow, others depict the Soviet state of the past with happy smiling faces- people happy with their lives.  Others are embellished with heavy brass statues depicting Russian strength etc, one one station a dog stands on the corner of an archway and many people touch its nose for good luck. The mosaics and stained glass at other stations are depicting the communist life which Russians accept as part of their history, but they have moved on to a modern world.;5;October 5, 2017
Underground Museum..;I could only see 8 stations, mostly the main ones and they are so original & pretty. They are decorated with patriotic murals, lamps classic, mosaics, statues... they  are incredible, I suggest  to go on a tour or hire a private guide because each station has its own history. Be aware of locals... the metro is their way to commute to work, so try to go off peak hours to make their work day easier and also it is better because the metro will be less crowded. By tickets and validate... don't want to get in trouble.;5;October 4, 2017
Rich in history mixed with modern day hustle & bustle;Well worth visiting . Always wanted to see and experience the moscow metro.... Fantastic to look at and very useful;5;October 4, 2017
Moscow Life line and excellent experience;worlds most beautiful & historical metro stations, live through the history of USSR and modern Russia with all the station. Amazing fast service at peak hours withing 30 seconds.;5;October 4, 2017
Best in the world;Where can you find a Metro system that is not only a tourist attraction but an example of russian art and glory?? Try most of the stations in the center of the ciry, find tue dogs for good luck and watch the chandeliers and architecture! Breathtaking!;5;October 3, 2017
an incredible service;We never had to wait longer than about 30 seconds for a train to arrive! The stations are absolute wonders in themselves, many filled with lovely statues, artwork, chandeliers, and amazingly long escalators. All beautifully clean. And travelling in the rush hour is fine, too, as all the local passengers are so polite and well-disciplined, no matter how great the crush. Important tip: remember to walk on the right! And, although the stations have vast flat expanses of space, there are often little unexpected steps just on the way in/out - so, if like me, you are prone to tripping up, do keep your eyes on the ground!;5;October 3, 2017
The best or nothing;Some people challenge themselves moving in slow cars in on-ground traffic. Why waste your precious time? Subway (Underground Railway) is just about anywhere in Moscow. Having almost 200 sub-stations. I cant even imagin for one visinting Moscow even once in their life and not being in Metro.;5;October 3, 2017
mysterious place;It is an amazing place, trains come every 30 seconds and you can go anywhere easily and fast. It's almost like a free museum but just pay attention that there is not any English tags so you may lost your way so easily. Suggest you to use Yandex metro.;4;October 3, 2017
A Must See Attraction in Moscow...Do Not Miss!!!;The Metro Stations in the main areas around downtown Moscow are one of the most beautiful and interesting attractions in the city. The are around a dozen that are worthy of being in an art museum with sculptures, paintings, stained glass, etc., honoring the people, both well-known and common, who made Russia noteworthy during the Soviet period. You should definitely take a tour with a guide who is knowledgeable about the history of each station and can be sure that you get on and off the trains at the right stops.Do not miss seeing these Metro Stations!;5;October 3, 2017
One of the best undergrounds in the World - Moscow Metro;The Moscow Metro - is one of the interesting places in Moscow. Of course, there are some stations that look like many other underground stations all over the world. But there are some amazing Metro stations were built in Moscow at Stalin time - before and after World War II. These stations are the beautiful examples of the Soviet style Architecture - a lot of marble, granite, semi-precious stone, chandeliers, gilding, banners, coats of arms, statues ...You will, in a good sense of the word, be amazed after visiting the metro stations in the central part of historic Moscow.;5;October 3, 2017
The cleanest most efficient Metro we have experienced.;This is the only way to get around when in Moscow the Metro is well run, inexpensive and gets you to where you want to be in the shortest possible time.The Metro network in and around Moscow is a tourist attraction and tours can be arranged..;5;October 3, 2017
Most beautifull subway in the world;I visited subway in New York, Rome, Milan, Dubai and several other cities. So I can tell you that you have to visit Moscow subway stations. They are very beautiful. Every station has unique design.;5;October 3, 2017
Underground palace;Nice place, but too much people in а peak hour. Better to visit in weekend/ Be careful with thieves!;5;October 2, 2017
An Amazing Way to Decorate a Metro System;There are a few station-platforms in the Moscow Metro that was worth spending about 2 hours to visit - to take photos to impress friends perhaps or for keeping.The first thing to do is to buy a standard one-way ticket for each person in the party of the tour. Each ticket is current priced at Rub55 (if you have no plan to travel in Moscow Metro for more than once). Why one-way ticket? This is because you do not need to exit the stations you visit during the tour and hence you need to leave the Metro system only once (in my case, I went back to the original station where I entered the underground Metro system). The ticket can be bought using self-service machine at the station or from the station ticket attendant. I asked my hotel concierge to write a short note for me to display to the station attendant for my need to get one one-way ticket.  The Moscow metro system is easy to use.  Just make sure you bring a metro map with you or download a phone app which contains Moscow Metro Map.  The metro lines are labeled from Line #1 to Line #12. When inside a station, just look for the line number to locate the platform you like to travel in.  The sign posts showing the directions are well placed in all stations and platforms with a high level of clarity.  Most of the attractions located on Lines 2, 3 and 5.Good luck and enjoy!;4;October 2, 2017
Moscow Metro;Traveled the Moscow metro a number of times and greatly admire the architecture. You can travel cheaply around the system visiting the stations of your choice; hop on and hop off. Don’t miss it and it sure beats the traffic problems above ground.;5;October 2, 2017
Confusing but efficient!;The metro works great but the signage is confusing, in my opinion. Budget more time than you might think you will need once you get into the metro, to figure out how you will reach your destination.;3;October 2, 2017
Most convenient transport in Moscow;During my 10 years of leaving in Moscow, I realized that it is one of the most convenient transports. Confusing at first glance, but then you start enjoying the show;5;October 2, 2017
Great for photography;If you like photography go for it. There are many tours but you can skip that, I bought a day ticket and went myself the same stations as the tour goes, you will have more time at each station to walk around or even go out. Suggest not to go in the Rushhour. Worth to see and experience.;5;October 2, 2017
Simply amazing;Visited half a dozen stops on the Moscow Subway. Stalin built them to cheer the people. They truly are like visiting and art/history museum. Well worth the visit. Cheap entertainment.;5;October 2, 2017
Beautiful Architecture;We had a private guide, and we explored the metros in Moscow, they are very beautiful, and each station is very different, some are painted with murals, some fancy sculptures, and even some with stained glass windows.  The stations are very busy in rush hour, we were on them at the weekend and it was quieter.;4;October 2, 2017
Easy to Use;The metro is a tourist attraction in itself, and some of the stations are iconic and tastefully designed in the classic style of the 1930's. Each station is different and a morning spent going from one station to another is well worth the time spent underground.;5;October 1, 2017
Wow beautiful;Metro like any other underground apart from the architecture is stunning in most stations.  Some parts difficult to understand which platform you need but I found very helpful people.  Very efficient service. Safety - like that you go through security Felt safe.  Escalators omg some are so very long and deep - never ending but in a good way.;4;October 1, 2017
Metro station or Art Gallery;Top List of Best Train stations in Moscow1-Komsomolskya2-Ploshdad Revolutsy3-Mayakovskaya4-Elektrozavodskaya;5;October 1, 2017
Don't miss it;Great tour with a guide that spoke very good English. Took about 90 minutes and we visited 8 stations, all of them with great architecture and art pieces. Highly recommend this tour. Why four stars? The description of the meeting point needs to be improved. I had to ask a Russian friend to give them a call to learn the tour would be "by Moscow Free Tour and the guide would be holding a red umbrella". All good, but this could all be included in the location description section of the reservation confirmation.;4;October 1, 2017
Very good;Apart from having many beautiful stations, it works really well, every few minutes there is a train, very well connected to all the main attractions of the city center.;5;October 1, 2017
Amazing Art;I always enjoy a day of travel in a city’s subway system. I get to see the non-tourist side of things, and mix in with the locals. The art is amazing. I wish it wasn't during rush hour and I allowed more time to experience the art. The actual metro is just like any other mode of transportaton, no beauty there. But gets you to your destination.;5;September 30, 2017
buried tresure get it cuz its underground;this fe(asteriks)kin thang is a mixed bag, not compleetly filled with feces. as far as metroes go this da bess, lichrally got all sortsa archtitecture dosn't smell too bad (7/10) the new statioons are s(asteriks)ite doe and the old c(asteriks)unts oglin the boards with directionss whil blocking the path for everone need to get smacked;5;September 30, 2017
Piece of art mean of transportation;You have to see it to believe how beautiful some stations are. It's clean, friendly, and convenient.;5;September 30, 2017
The most efficient way to travel inside the city;The Moscow Metro is very efficient and reaches almost anywhere in the city. I recommend buying a 'Troika' card, which allows you to use any public transport in Moscow. It can get pretty crowded during rush hours (8-11AM and 4-8PM).Each Metro station is a piece of art, and has different designs and art pieces. You can spend a whole day just exploring the different stations.;5;September 30, 2017
A must see for tourists.;Like most tourists we had a tour of the Moscow Metro booked and paid for.The traffic in the evening was less dense and we moved from station to station taking in the most popular stations. With warnings of "keeping up" we travelled as a group and took it all in.Some stations have murals, paintings, clever modelling and all are tiled and lit with impressive lighting.One station sings the praises of the Ukraine in murals and  Communist ideology.Noisy and fun..a must see.;4;September 29, 2017
Stunning;Wow - this is miles better than the London underground. Each station is decorated differently and they are so unusual.;4;September 29, 2017
Riding metro an even better deal with a "Troika" ticket - ask about it at the counter;I had not realized that this ticket, which is basically a rechargeable card (good for 5 years from the last time you used it), is a great deal if you plan on using the metro at least 4 times while you are in Moscow. I say 4 times because, while the card costs 50 rubles, each trip on any mode of public transportation costs only 32 rubles on the card, vice 50 rubles if you just buy a single ticket.  And you can use this card for more than yourself - just swipe it over the machine to let that person through, and then swipe it for yourself.   But that is just the logistics - the photos that are posted on TripAdvisor prove that it is a major tourist attraction on its own.   There are even signs painted on some of the subway hallway floors indicating the best place to take a particular photograph!  But be aware that most people are rushing from place to place when using the metro, so try to stay out of their way.  Usually the hallway will be vacant for about 2 minutes, before the next train arrives, and that is a good time for those photos.;5;September 29, 2017
US subways could learn from the Metro;Clean, beautiful and extremely well run -- trains come every 2 or 3 minutes.  People are friendly and will offer their seats to the elderly.   Definitely worth the time to take a ride;5;September 28, 2017
beautiful...just amazing...;exceptionally beautiful metro stations and tours are must...all the places are well connected. Once you know how to use metro in moscow...reaching any place is like cakewalk;5;September 28, 2017
What a stunning artwork!;A Moscow attraction that is a must see. The Stalin era mosaic art works are of the highest quality. They are not what we expect to see at metro stations, but must not be missed. Tip: use the selfie stick and setting to photograph the ceilings.;5;September 28, 2017
Fantastic underground Moscow;I adored every minute spent there. First, you can't be late anywhere. It is perfectly set, all  the lines. I love the sound of train coming so I spent there quite a lot of time. The ticket is cheap and with only one, you can see all stations. Almost every station is a work of art. Some stations don't have any decoration but those that have... wouuu! Statues, stained glass, candelabra, frescoes, mosaics, book illustrations, historical figures and events.. you can find all of it and more in those stations..;5;September 27, 2017
Depends on the station;Impressive !! Thus people are very grey & grumpy.... having all eyes on you if you a travelling with oversize luggage;5;September 27, 2017
The world most famous metro;The Moscow metro system is a must for all visitors. Spectacular and beautiful decorated metro stations in central Moscow.;5;September 27, 2017
The frenetic Moscow!;It is really difficult to explain how Moscow is dynamic, frenetic and fast. It is rare to go to a part of the city, almost all day, and see it quiet,silent and without people walking rythmically, orderly and fast.The Moscow Metro is the principal way to do this. It is a huge transportation in the city, with more than 200 stations. I invite you to consult in social media for the logos, files and symbols scattered in some of these stations. There are some very beautiful and pitoresque, even with soviet symbols.;5;September 26, 2017
Getting easier to navigate;Many of the stations are like museums, signs in English are starting to appear, making it easier for non russian speakers to navigate. The announcements on the metro are bi-lingual, you can see that they are getting ready for the world cup. When the moscow traffic comes to a standstill, metro is the fastest way to get from a to b. At 55 rubles for a one way ticket its the most economical way of traveling.;5;September 26, 2017
New metro stations and trains are great!;The way metro transformed over past few years is amazing, new trains and stations are as good as anywhere in the world, a lot of wealthy people started to use metro these days instead of cars which is big achievement. As always human factor exists and you can't run away from it, but rest is beautiful!;4;September 26, 2017
Beautiful art and service;Beautiful mosaics and glass windows adorn some of the stations, and the cars were pleasant and ran consistently.  Just great.;5;September 26, 2017
Superb!;Very convenient way to catch all the sights. Best way to get around- fast, reliable, inexpensive. Get a Troika card and load it up with the number of trips you want (costs 35 roubles for a trip as against a standalone price of 55 roubles for a trip) and start travelling! There are some spectacularly beautiful Metro stations- Mayakovskaya, Taganskaya, Electrozavodskaya, Park Kultury, to name a few- complete with mosaics, frescoes, sculptures and marble flooring throughout. An absolute dont-miss!;5;September 26, 2017
Beauty;What a beautiful place! The architecture is extraordinary! You need to visit at least one metro station to see it!;5;September 26, 2017
Big town;You can spend a whole day driving around and taking pictures.   Definitely take a night cruise on the boat to get the entire picture.   Stay in the hotels, they treat you like a king. The town is very safe and comfortable for foreign visitors.;5;September 25, 2017
Always great;Moscow metro is famous for a reason, they keep it in good shape and most stations are very attractive. It's inexpensive, clean with timely service. I have visited Moscow many times and the metro has never disappointed;5;September 25, 2017
Just amazing;Massive escalators that make you dizzy from the height but well worth it when you visit various stations. It was pretty busy when we went, which was mid morning. Train doors open & close fast so move quickly.;5;September 25, 2017
Impressive metro network;Moscow has an extensive metro network, with a fleet of trains that are clean and in good condition, it even offers free Wifi ( although the signal is not very stable). Some metro stations have very nice paintings or statues which makes the travel more enjoyable. The train is very frequent and it's easy to follow the signs (in Russian and English) if you need to transfer from one line to the other. The single ticket costs 55 RUB and allows unlimited transfers as long as you stay underground!;5;September 25, 2017
Metro train tour;Moscow train stations are classically beautiful. The design and structure make you feel like you are in a different era.;5;September 25, 2017
Efficient system but careful;Some metro station has a beautiful ceiling and is decorated with decent interior. But be careful. Pickpockets want to do your purse. Efficient system has many chances to access various places in Moscow with cheap price ticket.;4;September 24, 2017
Must visit and visit different underground stations time permitting;We had a locale guide with us to guide us and get on & off the 5 beautiful stations underground.Each on is decorated in different style and each one is different.The best thing I noticed is that in spite of the local people using the train as their local transport it is very clean & well mannered crowd. No litter, no pushing . Could take lovely pictures of the full group of 12.;5;September 24, 2017
Trip to the airport on our final day;Knowing how appalling the traffic can be in Moscow, we decided to go by Metro and the airport express. The only thing to be careful of is reading the signs that are of course in Cyrillic. But once you have organised carefully where you are going and can recognise the names, just leave yourself plenty of time and the rest is easy.We are used to the London Underground (Metro). The trains in London are newer but actually that doesn't matter. The fact is that the Moscow Metro is really clean, the trains are frequent, fast and efficient. It's really worth using, especially to see the decor in some of the stations.;5;September 24, 2017
Come see the architecture;Incredible architecture in some moscow metro stations, well worth seeing. Typical depressing faces on travellers faces going to work, but concentrate on finding a dogs nose to stroke for luck.;4;September 24, 2017
definitely worth seeing with a guide;we had a private tour. although you can easily do it on your own,  it is much better to have a guide since knowing the history and the backdrop of each station really ads to the experience and makes you appreciate it more. the lights and the tiles and general architecture of these select stations are quite amazing.;5;September 23, 2017
A must see in Moscow;We went on a tour of the Moscow Metro with our tour guide and found it very interesting. We thought it was probably best with a guide as she organised everything ; bought the tickets, explained where we had to go, and selected the most beautiful and interesting stations for us to see. All the stations were different, with beautiful mosaics, chandeliers,paintings and sculptures. Some of the decoration represents events in Russian history,or life in different parts of the country, traditional costumes etc. All the stations were immaculate,with no litter or graffiti. Definitely a must see in Moscow.;4;September 23, 2017
Beautiful Historic Buildings;We did a 2 hour tour seeing 7 stations with a very energetic, knowledgeable guide. Learnt lots and all the stations had unique features. I would really recommend getting a tour as you would miss a hell of a lot if you tried to do it yourself. A highlight of our visit to Moscow.;5;September 23, 2017
Worth the time;We were taken on a tour of several of Moscow subways, they are really different to what you would expect or would be normally used to.The structures have all been designed with a lot of consideration and look amazing.Worth a visit when in Moscow you will not be disappointed.;5;September 23, 2017
Stunning;Some of the stations really are works of art. Well worth visiting and highly recommended. Just jump from station to station. Once in the trains the maps and announcements are in English as well as Russian which makes life easy, but a lot of signage in stations is only in Russian so may help to have where you want to go written in Cyrillic if you can't read it. Also be aware that at the interchanges, all the connected stations have different names. Ladies at the ticket office will try to speak English too. I discovered you can buy tickets for 1, 2 or 20 journeys or a 24 hour ticket. Enjoy! Makes the tube and subway look pretty rubbish by comparison!;5;September 23, 2017
Really good;Moscow is proud of its Metro and they should be. Each station offers something different. All are worth seeing. Very safe. Very clean. Always on time. Use it English signs and announcements.;5;September 23, 2017
Tlig;Took a metro from Vega Hotel to go the red square, Kremlin and visit st basil cathedral. Quite a unique metro to other metros I have taken in other countries. The Moscow metro has so much history even underneath the metro, amazing n to my surprise, the under ground metro is so big, the old russian history, statues from the early years of Soviet union can be seen....an amazing experience, all worth the trip, highly recommended.;3;September 22, 2017
Take a tour with a guide to see the Metro Museum;We took a tour of the metro with an English speaking guide, Maria. Luckily our guide got our ticket and led us from one station to the other.  We changed trains several times.  At each station, she would explain who constructed the art work, why and what it represents, along with materials used and from where. We visit churches to see mosaics but this metro had mosaics and more. Some lines are very deep and the escalator ride down at an angle with a long distance also made the ride unique. Always observe correct metro etiquette, stand to right while allowing others to pass to left on escalators and halls.  Before boarding a train, allow those to exit but quickly get on. There is a lot of Russian history in the underground.  You will not find trash or any type of graffiti to deface these treasures.  All should learn respect for their heritage and do the same back home.  There's a place to appreciate it all. Wear comfy shoes and watch for pick pockets.  Keep valuables guarded. This is the most impressive metro I have ever seen.;5;September 22, 2017
Beautiful;Our tour guide took us to some of the more elaborate metro stations and they are absolutely stunning with paintings and mosaics, statues and chandeliers.Well worth trying to get a look at them if you have time.;4;September 22, 2017
Beautiful and efficient - but be prepared to be confused;Excellent metro - used extensively on 1 week visit to Moscow. Very cheap, buy ticket by number of rides , if travelling as a couple /group 1 ticket can be shared by all - the price you pay is for the number of rides* this is number if times you enter the metro -not number of changes/ lines you use, it really is superb value for money. Metros run every couple of minutes, at times they can be packed so if this is your first time using them try and choose a quieter time to get used to the system....and If Russian isn't your strong point make sure you have metro map with Russian and English station names. And if you do get lost don't worry you will find your way back :-) The Metro stations are a joy to behold some of them are truly beautiful.;5;September 22, 2017
I love the metro;Moscow is my new favourite city because of the metro. So efficient and so beautiful. Very hard to navigate without a Russian speaking friend. But as a truck just memorise which line and the first letter of the last station in the direction you want to go. There's no better feeling than succeeding at the metro!;5;September 21, 2017
Fantastic Metro;It's like being in a Museum. You can see a lot of pictures, a lot of sculptures, lamps,...learning Russian history. And so useful for people. They have a good infrastructure. The frequency is from about 40 seconds to as much 120 seconds between trains. Don't worry to take it. It seemed us save. Inside the train, the stops are announced in Russian and English. Good transport.;5;September 21, 2017
Underground palaces.;Having been brought up on the London Tube this is spectacular. The stations have different themes, the trains whack along.Some of it could do with a spring clean, but considering the use it gets this is hardly surprising.;5;September 21, 2017
went of metro tour during a visit to Moscow;Astounding is one word in which you can describe it.With escalators taking you 800 ft below ground. It is completely a different world with Murals, paintings and  sculptures all around.The best part is that in spite of so much traffic the city has maintained it so well;5;September 21, 2017
Some of the most beautiful stations I have ever seen;Efficient, cheap, with quite a few archaic trains but the most beautiful subway stations, each different in style;4;September 21, 2017
Train stations that look like ballrooms;Travel on the Moscow Metro and see some of the most detailed metro stations in the world. Go later in the evening so you can pause to look at the ceilings without getting trampled by commuters.;4;September 20, 2017
Amazing Metro System;We did not make a special trip just to see metro stations. But we ended up seeing some different metro stations because we took wrong trains and had to make some transfers. Some metro stations we saw were amazing - some filled with statues and a couple looking ultra-modern. All metro trains we took had wi-fi on the train. One metro train we took was all painted outside and inside a few framed paintings were displayed.  Metro trains and stations are all clean and beautiful. I have taken subways in some countries but the metro system in Moscow was most entertaining.;5;September 20, 2017
Nicest subway I've been in anywhere;Not sure what to expect from a subway in Moscow but this was super clean, and architecturally beautiful.;4;September 20, 2017
Beautiful and practical;There are some metro stations really beautiful. I definitely recommend a hop-on hop-off experience. Also, it's a cheap and practical way to travel in Moscow.;5;September 20, 2017
Advice from Muscovite;Dear all, Our metro area is really beautiful,  specially the ring old line. But select  carefully the time of visit: 7-9 a.m. and 6-8 p.m. is time sleepy or tired people going to /from work, metro is busy that time and you won't be able to make a normal photo or simply enjoy the area because it is the main transport in overpopulated city. Good luck and welcome;5;September 20, 2017
Unbelievably beautiful!;We were awed with the chandeliers, carara marble, mosaics etc that was used to decorate it. If you get the chance, this shouldn't be missed. Although a much deeper one is in St. Petersburg (82 meters deepens takes about 3 mins to go each way- and which we also tried) the ones in Moscow are ostentatiously decorated and well worth appreciating. Not to worry, it is very safe and people very help with directions, it doesn't mean that you will let your guard down when appreciating the beauty of the metro.;5;September 19, 2017
Must see;Tours of the metro are inexpensive and if you haven't experienced it before it is a treat to see the architecture and Art. Also a good way to check out how to use the metro which is a great way to travel around the city;5;September 19, 2017
Moscow underground is a must!;As this was my first trip to Moscow I wanted to see as much as possible and had been advised to visit the underground stations.Our guide took us to six stations, each different than the last. No bill posters or graffiti, instead chandeliers, paintings and mosaics. Very clean both in the trains and platforms. A real treat I would definitely recommend.;5;September 19, 2017
Art in the subway;For 92 US cents it beats going to museums.  Takes a while but if you choose your subway lines and stations carefully you can  experience the art and architecture of Moscow. Highly recommended, worth spending a bit of time but perhaps better not to go at rush-hour. Very impressed with the maximum two minute interval between trains, mostly about 90 seconds and evidenced by the clock  at each platform. As the first train leaves the clock starts at zero and generally the next train will leave within 90 – 120 seconds.  I don't know anywhere else in the world with such good transportation at such a reasonable price.;5;September 19, 2017
Very Efficient and Cheap;This is the best way to go around Moscow.The Metro tunnels are Museums by itself. Find time to actually stop and admire the sculptures, murals, architectural designs and so on.TipBuy the Troika Card to pay less per trip. The Troika card cost $0.8. Without the Troika card you pay $0.9 per trip. With Troika you only pay $0.6 per trip.;5;September 19, 2017
Hard to get along;Without knowing Russian and /or Kiril letters. Most of the signs are in Russian, few people can speak or understand English, however there are some stations names in English plus English voice messages which make it a little easier. We used it and came to our destination but it wasn't easy.However- there are few terrific stations, don't dare missing it, designed with statutes and paintings ! Look at the internet to find them. We took a local guide and he showed us those stations.I believe that due the coming games in Moscow a lot will be changed including signs in English...;4;September 18, 2017
Valuable;Moscow Metro Stations have very art value according to the handmade paintings, statue and stone collected pictures.its very nice and impressive;4;September 18, 2017
Beautiful;If you want to travel through history , you must have a full free day and explore the metro system . Take time in each amazing station and admire all the art and symbols in front of your eyes .;4;September 18, 2017
Doesn't smell of pee!;Beautiful architecture and very clean, trains are a bit dated but functional. Best way round the city.;4;September 18, 2017
Impressive metro;It is worth doing the Ring line when in Moscow and jump off at the interesting looking stations - there are quite a few! Trains seem to run every few minutes - we have never seen such a great service!;5;September 18, 2017
The best;Just don't get in anyone's way :)  trains come every couple of minutes on average. Learn Cyrillic characters and speed reading. There's no other place in the world like it.;5;September 17, 2017
Difficult due to the language barrier;I had to use two maps - one to find my way in English then the Russian one to find the Russian place names. Plenty of staff around (if you know enough Russian to ask them a question). Impressive when you get down / on the way down to the platforms which I used.;4;September 17, 2017
A stunning trip;Be sure to ride the Metro in Moscow. The stations are so diverse in their architecture and design. They are spotlessly clean and tidy.Highlight of the stations has to be Belorusskaya.;5;September 17, 2017
Stunning;Quite simply it's an efficient transport system but above that every station is a museum in its own right. No visit to Moscow is complete without visiting at least some of these stations, they are all different and all equally stunning.;5;September 17, 2017
An experience;Cheapest and quickest way to travel but be patient and make sure you have a good underground map.Changing at interchanges is easy once you know how. Before then its daunting.Great experience though.;4;September 17, 2017
It was great.;very crowded place. it has a very large Escalators the price is very cheap and very easy to travel all over the city.;5;September 17, 2017
U will never find such metros any where;Moscow metros are no less than museums...they are must visiting stations out in Moscow...It's remarkably beautiful and if u love art museums plz do visit....;5;September 17, 2017
The most impressive metro;Yes, this is the most impressive metro I have ever seen. The metro itself deserves a tour because many stations are pure engineering, architecture and art masterpieces. I strongly recommend to visit it, to discover many hidden aspects of this beautiful city!;5;September 16, 2017
Moscou je t'aime/Moscow I love you/Москва, я люблю тебя;Moscow Metro. For those of you who think of it as "underground" - big disappointment. It is not underground - it is a museum. Le Louvre, if you wish. London, Paris, New York - you have to trade your "underground" for just one Mayakovskaya station in Moscow metro. Take a tour along Koltsevaya Liniya (The Beltway). Hop on and hop off at Belorusskaya, Kurskaya and many other stations. Check out the blue sky monument at the transfer between Park Kultury and Oktyabrskaya. These Russian names may sound weird, but "lost in translation" is the only price you pay for seeing these beauties. Entry ticket for the whole day (before you leave) - 56 Roubles (~1 USD). The cheapest museum of the most wonderful museums of the world. Go for it!;5;September 16, 2017
Art & Metro;There are 44 stops in the system that are cultural heritage sites. Take the time to visit a few- you will be surprised at the art work inside.;5;September 15, 2017
Amazing stations!;I took a tour to see some underground stations and I have to say that they are amazing and I felt in love on the spot, well done Russia.;5;September 15, 2017
Eeeek.....wow....;Blimey...this place is incredible. Never been on anything like it. Talk about efficiency...these train s come like bullets and are every minute  the stations are amazing like works of art and are truly beautiful. Small tip....if your on here have your wits about you. Keep bags close and fastened also take a map of the metro. We found it easier to screen shot a Google map so we could copy spellings of the stations. Platform signs are all in Cyrillic so make sure you know the Cyrillic letters for the station your going to. Once on the train destinations are in English and Russian and announced in English on most and some have a light up map to tell you where you are. Also if using the metro alot buy a multi trip ticket you can buy them for various amounts of trips and can be used by 2 people you just need  to pass the ticket back to your companion to get through the barrier. It's cheaper and when you pass through it tells you how many trips you have left....metro closes at 1 in the morning. But not sure about ticket offices;4;September 15, 2017
THE METRO IN MOSCOW;OH MY WORD !!  I could not believe what I saw! This place is like a open museum! Or better a place were art is displayed for free. The paintings ... the bronze statues.... the marble floors... the chandliers... please go and see this!!;5;September 14, 2017
Beautiful metro stations;It took me a while to understand the metro map, as nothing is written in english and i dont speak or read russian. As not much People speak english,  you have to figure this one out on yourself.  But once you do you wont regret it! The metro stations are fabuleous!  Beautiful artwork! Cheapest way to travel in moscow;5;September 13, 2017
Wow!;The various amazingly decorated Soviet-era stations are worth a visit even if it means a detour. The metro is also generally clean, seems well maintained, and the trains are one after the other with hardly any break.;5;September 13, 2017
must see;true masterpiece of architecture, really nice monument from really tuff times. Pictures on the ceilings are fabulous! Enjoy it before or after rush hour!;5;September 13, 2017
An Unbeatable Subway System;I have seen numerous subways and transit systems over the years but nothing remotely compares to to Moscow transit system. In the 1930's under the Stalin regime subway stations were built that featured paintings, chandeliers, ceramic tiles, porcelain, statutes, murals, frescos, etc. The beauty of the stations are incredible and should not be missed by Moscow visitors. A Metro ticket is quite inexpensive. We did not see any trash cans and the stations were immaculate.;5;September 13, 2017
Take a tour of the metro;Taking a guided tour is the best idea ,and late at night, it has great architecture and is very clean,you won't be disappointed;5;September 13, 2017
One Surprise After Another;We visited 10 of the Metro stations to see the art, sculptures and history. Surely they are unique in the world and a treasure for Moscow. Such a good idea to make them all different and interesting experiences. Additional to this the trains run every 2 minutes, they and the stations were spotlessly clean and we really found the experience of the Metro a joy. Highly recommended. The best way to see Moscow and avoid traffic. Not at all a typical big city metro, much better !;5;September 13, 2017
Unexpected pleasure;Some great art work, history, and unique architecture in the various Metro stations- and most can be seen with a single fare.   Look online for a metro tour guide, pick your starting point, and go.  The trains arrivals are surprisingly frequent, but the signage is disappointing (even Russian speakers have trouble).  Worth a few hours.;4;September 13, 2017
Unique on earth;Fantastic stations with marble and statues galore and impressive depths (250' below surface), an unforgettable experience.;4;September 13, 2017
Unforgettable trips..;A piece, indeed many pieces of the city of Moscow just all around you and, literally, under your feet.. Among the most beatiful ones;Arbatskaja,  Ploščad’ Revoljucii,Teatral' naya, Komsomol’skaja and Majakovskaja..;5;September 13, 2017
Surprisingly lovely;The Moscow metro is convenient, cheap, clean and has a number of beautiful stations.  Obviously the primary purpose is to get from A to B, but it is worthwhile taking the time to enjoy the artwork and architecture of the stations.;4;September 12, 2017
Great metro but not really something to see;The metro was really nice and efficient. The Yandex Metro app is really well designed and makes using it easy. However, I'm not sure why tours of the metro are included in all of the guide books. It's nicer than the subway here in NYC, but not anything to go out of your way to see.;3;September 11, 2017
Beautiful metro stations in the ring line;Most visit attraction in Moscow.  Metro stations in the ring line are all beautiful and unique.  Many works of art, murals, statues, colorful tiles on walls and floors.  Must include in list of things to do in Moscow.;5;September 11, 2017
very pretty;Very pretty.  I love all of them.  all of them.  Suggest to all travelers.  Do not miss it.  Spend a day.;5;September 11, 2017
Beautiful stations;The stations I saw were like visiting an art gallery. Impeccably clean. The system is efficient and well maintained.;5;September 11, 2017
Indispensable;So good!  Cheap, fast and efficient. The stations are architectural masterpieces and there is no better way to see the centre of the city.;5;September 11, 2017
One of a kind;You could join a tour or do this on your own as it is not that difficult. Your need 1. a guide book to tell you which stations to see and what to look for 2. a Metro map in Russian along with the english equivalent. Inside a Metro station, everything is written in Russian ONLY including the station name and directions on illuminated boxes. In side a train, the route map however has both Russian and english. The newer trains also have electronic routes indicating where you are going next. The best is to do some homework and map out where you want to go. In order to decide which direction to go on a platform, you must match the names of the stations in Russian in the same direction that you are going. Take you time to match the station names before hopping on a train. If I could do it, so could you.;5;September 9, 2017
Best way to get around Moscow;While you may use apps "Gett" or "uber" for taxi  service (both reasonable prices) The metro is a much cheaper option if your planning on doing a lot of going around for a long period , though similar to the London Underground the downside of the metro is that all the sign in the stations are in Russian which can be a challenge , I manage to download an app (metro map)  & with the help of google maps figure out which train and stations with the names in English and Russian. Though once inside the metro car the station is named in English and Russian and also the public address mentions the name of the station in English and Russian.Single pass ticket is 55 rbl & 2 pass ticket is 110 rblAlso available is 20 pass ticket for 720 rbls (I shared one pass with my wife with no issue);4;September 9, 2017
In one word Wow!!!;The Moscow Metro is a must do while in Moscow. We went on line 5 and it is aThe inner circle line and there where 12 stations to hop on and off at. The stations are just gorgeous. Everyone different. Only costs 55 roubles to do.;5;September 9, 2017
Beautiful Metro in the world!!!;Metro was build more than 80years. Its cover all places in Moscow. Inside the metro decorated by colourful paint. Beware , You must not going there on the morning rush hour and after work hours. So much people an a lot of theifs.;4;September 9, 2017
Stunning;we visited several of these metro stations and all of them were very beautiful. each was extremely different. A must to visit when you are in Moscow;5;September 8, 2017
Marvellous;Coming from London, where the Underground is at best a sick joke, the Moscow Metro system was simply a marvel to behold.The trains are spacious, the waiting time between trains is minimal, and most of all, the system actually works.Of course the point of your visit will most likely be to check out the magnificent architecture in the stations. In this regard, the stations definitely deliver.;5;September 8, 2017
Moscow Metro delight;A pleasant surprise where each station displayed the grandeur of Stalin reign with chandeliers & marble & marvellous sculptures.;5;September 8, 2017
Chandeliers metro;We only took a short ride on their Metro, but what an experience. The first thing you notice is the absence of rubbish and graffiti. The Russians are very proud of their heritage which is suberbly shown in mural form at different levels of the Metro and at the different stations. It is really something so different from what we know and expect, not to be missed.;5;September 7, 2017
An Art Gallery at nearly every stop!;This is well worth your time! A guide would be most helpful but you can go it alone if you wish. Get off at each stop, walk around and look everywhere. Each station has its own theme and each is both beautiful and interesting. This is completely well worth doing!;5;September 7, 2017
Museum under the ground;It's art in public transportation. Every station has something interessting to see.There are 178 stations but it's difficult to use i you cant read in Russian because there is no English translation...;5;September 7, 2017
Great variety and a a must see;One trip on this Metro and you will be stunned, underground architecture and great vistas and every station is different. A good idea to pay for a tour as there are plenty of stories about it all. Also a lot of stations to see so need plenty of time.;5;September 7, 2017
open meuseum;always keep with you  a map of metro stations written in both  languages. Inside some of  stations and trains  everything is written in Russian ( so always get the name of your station and direction written in both languages ).basically you can reach any where in Moscow by metro and is cheap. but   in rush hour it can be really crowded.;4;September 7, 2017
Very fascinating;As an American, visiting the metro was an awe inspiring experience. There is so much detail in the design and architecture. Must see at least once during you're visit even if you have other means of transportation.;4;September 7, 2017
The station buildings are amazing;Go below at some of the metro stations for a visual treat with art of all kinds. The best are in all the guides.;5;September 7, 2017
Royal palacial looks of Metro stations;What a spectacular view of the underground metro stations in Moscow. With plenty of murals and decorations, it left us spellbound. Modern metro trains but history studded stations.We were a part of the group of about 40 tourists and we thoroughly enjoyed this visit.;5;September 7, 2017
Subway with history but be prepared for limited English;I've never saw subway stations like these before. So many decorations and details. Both the stations and the trains themselves look like from a different era - which they kind of are.These are absolutely amazing and very dept of them all - breath taking, really.Definitely take the metro when travelling to Moscow, it's a true experience.However, do not expect too many indications in English. I managed to guess my way in and out the right stations with a map and multiple photos taken to the exact naming of the stations. These places are huge and quite complex, so do not expect to guess your way out just by wild guess or pure luck - not gonna happen.;5;September 7, 2017
The most beautiful metro ever!;I have been in many metros around the world, but this one is unique, it is like a museum, every station is different, if you take the circle brown line you'll have the pleasure to enjoy it! The train is old and it is noisy, but works perfectly and it is cheap! Don't talk to loud in the train because Russian will look at you bad!;5;September 7, 2017
as if you are in a palce;it is very organized and attractive, very well decorated I went few times during my vist with a lot of groups be careful it is easy to get lost;5;September 7, 2017
Beautiful stations;Did a tour of the subway stations. Most of the stations are very nice. I only did the brown and dark blue lines.;5;September 7, 2017
The stations are unlike any that we've seen in other cities. They are exquisite;We were given a tour of several of the most beautiful stations on the metro. It costs 55 rubles to ride and we would go to specific stations to admire the architecture of each of the unique stations. Each one we saw had a theme and were a joy to experience;5;September 6, 2017
The fastest way to move around Moscow;Metro is by all means the fastest way to move around Moscow although taxi are in abundance and very moderately priced. Metro still allows to avoid traffic jams and construction in the streets and will take you to the place you want to be with a reasonable calculation of how long the trip might take. It is clean   and well decorated, most trains are modern although not air-conditioned. Most of the times very short wait between the trains, convenient and easy to navigate network with transfers and underground tunnels. Paying is easy with a lot of different options - from single-use ticket all the way to flexible cards to monthly cards valid for all means of transportation. Hard to avoid if you need to move around Moscow.;5;September 6, 2017
amazing;One of The most interesting places in Moscow.  Won't regret it.  Sooo much history.  And it's beautiful.;5;September 6, 2017
Amazing;You must visit some metro stations in moscow. Amazing decoration from Soviet era. Most beautiful station is komsolovsaya.;5;September 6, 2017
every station is different;we were lucky that we had a private guide who could take us around and move between stations easily to show us the completely different stations.  It is really worth having someone like this because its completely fabulous!  Dont miss this when you go to Moscow;5;September 6, 2017
Very practice and filled with history;Amazing portraits and sculptures depicting what it was like some time ago. Mostly very smooth run through.;5;September 6, 2017
Never too late and as expencive as one metro trip ticket;First of all, it is well known that Moscow metro is the most beautiful metro in the world, but the tourists still are surprised when they are in the metro.I would not recommend traveling during pick hours but in the middle of the day or in the evening (up to 23:00 or even later) this is perfect.The simplest tour is round trip around circle line (brown). You, for sure, will come to the initial point and will never be lost. You simply can hop out and in at each station as practically all of them are great. My favorite is "Novoslobodskaya" as it is most colorful. It will take approx. 30 mins to go around circle line if not to go out of the train; it's up to you to choose the station which you would like to see.  It also strongly recommended to go to Mayakovskaya station as it is (or was till recently) the most deep station. Do not forget to enjoy mosaics on the ceiling - they are perfect! On the same line you will like Dynamo station (but it's a little bit dark).From Gorky park station on the circle line you can change to red line - and this is the first line of Moscow metro. Visit "Kropotkinskaya" station - white and classical one (on the ground above it is Jesus the Savior cathedral and it is aprrox.  20 mins walk from Red square. Komsomolskay station is also very impressive on this line but it can be overcrowded due to three railway stations above it (but the architecture is really impressive and unusual). Moscow metro is very safe, if you will travel during busy hours you will be extremely impressed by the fact that less than one minute is the gap between two trains.Luckily know everywhere now they have English names of the stations and rather easy to understand map.If you will have a chance to go to more new station you also will find very interesting examples of architecture and design So - enjoy our metro!;5;September 6, 2017
Easy, Fast, Fun, and Beautiful!;The Moscow Metro system is one of the most comprehensive and easy to use metro systems in the world! It is far and away the fastest method of transportation in traffic-choked Moscow. Don't read Cyrillic? Don't worry! Most signs and maps are now printed with the names of the stations in the Roman alphabet as well. The lines are color-coded too, so it isn't hard at all to find your way. If you get stuck for any reason, other passengers are helpful and friendly and many even speak English. Finally, the older stations, especially in the city center, are works of art often with beautiful mosaic ceilings and Art Deco lighting fixtures.;5;September 6, 2017
A very well oiled system !!!;Moscow metro was super efficient. I have used Metros in London, Paris, Singapore, Delhi and Dubai but somehow found Moscow metro the most efficient. Moscow metro works more or less in the same way a London metro works. There are 14 different colored and numbered metro lines which are interconnected with each other so that you can reach any part of the city you wish. Following are the major observations:- 1) You can buy a 'TPONKA' card from any metro ticket station. Card will cost you 50 Rubles. Card can be pre-filled with any number of rides. 5, 10, 20 etc. This card will work on Metro, Bus, Tram (All public transportation). Per ride cost will be 35 Rubles (~ $0.6). There are automated machines where you can top-up the card.2) Somehow I felt that there is less walking involved in Moscow metro compared to other metro systems in the world. This may be more of a personal feeling though.3) Metro stations (especially near central Moscow) are beautiful and Historic. I especially liked the station of 'Biblioteka Imeni Lenina' for its architecture. 4) I'm not sure if Aeroexpress is part of Moscow metro, but Aeroexpress is way too expensive than Moscow metro (costing 500 Rubles for one way journey from SVO airport to city center). An Uber will always be cheaper and comfortable if you are traveling in group of 3 or 4 people.;5;September 6, 2017
Fastest transport;Obviously when you have 10 mln + population and limited infrastructure you will face traffic problems in daily basis, sometimes you can loose 3-4 hrs to reach you destination by car. Moscow Metro will help you, even it's crowded as well and not extremely comfortable during the rush hours, but it was build almost 100 years ago and still keeps historical designs);4;September 6, 2017
Must See;You would think you are visiting a palace !!! Amazing experience don't think anywhere in the world you will find a metro station of that level !!! Highly recommended .;5;September 6, 2017
Palaces under ground;I think it's the best underground ever, more than 40 stations on the list of UNESCO's World Heritage Sites.;5;September 6, 2017
Beautiful;One of the most beautiful metros in the world. Very noisy but worth visiting. You will love it. It is better to buy a multi-day ticket.;5;September 6, 2017
Efficient, cheap but noisy.;I just travelled a few stops on the Russian Metro. It was wonderful to travel in an advertisement free, efficient railway. However, while the stations are pristine and some quite spectacular for their decor, the trainsare showing their age now and are very noisy. Tickets are simple to obtain from the manned ticket offices where the staff are friendly and patient with foreigners. A trip on the Moscow Metro is a must for visitors just for the experience.;4;September 5, 2017
Incredible;I have never seen any metro even close to Moscow metro, the workmanship, detail, preservation of history, accessibility, ease of use, convenience (you rarely wait more than 2 minutes!).9 million rides a day, unsurpassed beauty, I could go on but all I'll say is don't miss the Metro!!!!Did I mention when you buy a 20 pack the cost works out to 65 cents a ride!!;5;September 5, 2017
Explore Moscow by Metro;once you understand the Metrosystem, it is the most easiest and inexpensive way to explore the city. Avoid to stand in traffic jam with Taxi, Metro is the fastest way from A to B. Best is to buy a card with 20 rides. With one entry you can stay as long as you want in underground, When you miss a station, no problem, take then next train back, they come every two minutes. Take your camera with you, the stations are the most beautiful in the world.;5;September 5, 2017
A walk into history;Go see the Moscow metro, you need to buy a ticket of course and you can buy a multi journey ticket, (tip here  if there is group or a couple just buy one ticket with the amount of journeys required 10 20 etc and this is legal as one enters you pass the ticket to the next person etc) I recommend that you get onto the Brown line it is a circle line and get off on every stop and you will be able to see wonderful frescos and paintings, sculptures and other works that cover Russian history. A must do in Moscow;5;September 5, 2017
the best Metro in the world, A MUST TO VISIT;you need a day and half to visit all the beautiful stations of this "Metro". If you come in Moscow and you miss them it's like if you go in Roma and miss the Colosseo.;5;September 5, 2017
i love this architecture;great architecture, love the different stations. took me a lot time to travel. as a photgrapher i spend more time on the stations rather than travelling.;5;September 5, 2017
Efficient & Beautiful;The brilliance of the architecture of this metro system is matched only by its convenience. This is by far the best way to navigate Moscow like a local. However, be warned; it's one of the most navigated and hectic metro systems on earth and is NOT to be taken as a tourist destination (so please don't stop to take pictures). Also, English and Latin characters on signs are very limited.;5;September 4, 2017
Each station is a work of art;We took a guided tour around the maze of the Moscow metro and I am so glad that we did otherwise we would have got totally lost. Each station is a work of art and unique. Definitely worth seeing;5;September 4, 2017
Wonder of Russia under earth;It is one of the must do while roaming in Moscow. Art work at the platform level is just mind blowing. Its not like that they have done it on the small part of platform. Entire platform is highly rich in architecture work......and please note there are several metro station in Moscow with this type of beautiful structure of art;5;September 4, 2017
Champagne Socialism;This must be where it all started when Stalin ordered extravagant decorative malls of the underground. All efficient and simple to use.;5;September 4, 2017
It was a wow place to See!;Cerianly one of the must things to do when in Moscow. The system runs really well and although the network looks confusing assistance I received form the ticket office was really great.;5;September 3, 2017
Metro trip - amaze yourself;The most important is planning. You need to decide which stops you want to see.I advise: Mayakovskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Park Pobedy, Shosse Enthusiastov, Ploschad Revolutsyi, Prospekt Mira. Kievskaya, Komsomolskaya and many others.;5;September 3, 2017
Stunningly beautiful;This is unique and beautiful. It is on a grand scale at each station. Every station has its story. Almost ethnographic, relating to subcultures that make current day Russia. Excellent addition to any urban landscape. This is a must.;5;September 3, 2017
Wish the UK tube system was like this;The brown line is particularly splendid. Surprisingly easy to travel around in the centre due to the frequency and some english.;5;September 3, 2017
Gets the job done;My first metro experience. I found it punctual, clean and without issue. Stops are everywhere so moving around the huge city was easy!;4;September 2, 2017
Looks like a museum;The metro is full of different statues mostly communist ideal postures that are made during the very same era, worth visiting ,I just noticed most of the people passing touch statues so much that you can see colors started to fade, that was strange for me;4;September 2, 2017
Well worth a visit;What a treat- each station was better than the last. The metro itself is extremely efficient- every one or two minutes. But the decorations on the walls are incredible. A must see attraction.;5;September 1, 2017
Wow!;You need to be a little brave but it's worth it.The stations are beautiful, but man oh man I had no idea what any of the signs were trying to tell me... but I worked it out in the end.Be brave it's worth it.;4;September 1, 2017
Stunning murals;The mosaic murals and other decorations (chandeliers) in the metro were the most memorable aspect of our visit to Moscow. And I have more pictures of those than of anything else. A must see.;4;August 31, 2017
Wonderful Metro;We have visited some of beautiful and amazing metro stations in moscow... In my opinion, there are the most beautiful stations in the world.;5;August 31, 2017
Can be a little confusing;the subway system connects the city very well. It is very much advisable to go around the city with a metro day pass( or whichever pass works out the best for you). The escalators move extremely fast(as they are long owing to the large depths of these subways) and have very low handrails hence the elderly should be careful while climbing onto the steps;4;August 31, 2017
Back in Time;Like going back in time - but in a good way - the stations have a lot of character and charm. The trains also run very well even if they do have seem a bit old...;5;August 31, 2017
Art deco and sculpture in the Metro;I particularly like art deco in Mayakovskia station and war statues at Revolution Square. There is a symmetry and beauty about the stations and a sense of space.;5;August 31, 2017
Spectacular;I've never seen any underground stations like this in the world! The architecture is spectacular. The work that has gone into many of these underground stations is phenomenal. You have to do this tour! My favourite was the one with stained glass windows. I did this with a tour group but you can easily do it on your own. A good tour if it's a cold and rainy day.;5;August 30, 2017
Beautiful Stations;Take a guided tour and learn the history behind the stations.I'm only marking this down because there is nothing in English at the moment. I was advised that due to the world cup this will change.;4;August 30, 2017
Good but a little overrated;Yes, Moscow Metro is nice and different.The service was great and easy to follow even if you don't read Russian.The stations are nice and have some glamour, but don't think that you are visiting the hermitage!;4;August 30, 2017
Underground museum;Every station has a unique style - from baroque to modern. Any visitor should take an afternoon of from usual tours and just take a ride in the Moscow subway. Advice: do not go before 10 am and after 5:30pm, its the rush hour.;5;August 30, 2017
From another era!;Coming from NYC, this Metro was a site to see. Clean platforms and tracks, and the three times we took the trains, they were frequent and very little waiting. New York City could take a few lessons.;4;August 30, 2017
Metro stations worth visiting;It is quite easy to visit the most popular Metro stations were one can enjoy the art. Most stations are in the Circle and you can simple take the Metro and get off and on the stations. We spent just 55 Rubles.  I recommend reading the stories of the art in each station.;4;August 29, 2017
Really convenient and an art deco paradise.;Well, it's a metro, but if you are interested in design, it's certainly one of the more classy ways to commute through the city. The best deal is to get a travel card, which is called Troika and get the super well-designed app for the metro by Yandex. One of the things I loved about it was you continue to have a phone connection and network even when you underground, quite amazing!;4;August 29, 2017
Worth it!!;We did this tour on our own without a guide. We did it at about 10 PM as we were told the subways are safe and less crowded at that hour. We rode the brown line getting off at each station to look around. The trains run very frequently so although we were in the subway for at least 2 hours, we did not have to wait long for the next train. There are a few stations to see that are not on the brown line, such as Dostoyevsky. Search online you will find the recommended stations.It helps if you can read the Cyrillic alphabet which we learned relatively quickly from our guide books. You will not find any English signage.You will be able to find a subway map with the stations labelled in English but in the subways, on the walls it is all Russian!! Good luck!;5;August 29, 2017
My every day transport facility;I live in Moscow and I use this facility every day. Still even today after many years of this experience I make sometimes a short stops at some old and the most outstanding stations to observe its decoration. Attractive!;4;August 29, 2017
Awesome;I think it's the biggest metro I've ever seen, all the station have been Restored sense 1940 and look amazing, at the rush hours which is at early morning and the after noon there is a lot of people using the metro;5;August 29, 2017
Stalin's legacy;Constructed in the 1930s to show that the USSR was a place of culture and innovation. A great experience except during the rush hour, when it's a nightmare to travel.;4;August 28, 2017
Family Holiday;Gorgeous Metro Station .. worth seeing .. different from regular Stations in other countries. Rub the dog for Good Luck for sure;4;August 28, 2017
A museum for RUB 55, top attraction;We had heard about the stations on the Moscow Metro but you do need to experience them for yourself.We looked up the stations of note and plotted a route and you only have to pay once to get on this circuitous route.This is what we did if you want to follow:We started from Okhotny Riad and made our way to the first station of interest,  Komsomolskaya. Then it went Novoslobodskaya, Mayakovskaya, Novokuznetskaya, Kropotkinskaya, Ploschad Revolyutsii, and finished at Elektrozavodskaya. Simples.;5;August 28, 2017
Only in Russian;We saw a lot of pictures and travelled once. Very beautiful and would have love to see more, but it is very difficult to navigate if you don't speak the language.;3;August 28, 2017
Metro Station ?;A Metro Station as tourist attraction sounds weird.But,it is.It is clamed to be the oldest Metro station in the world.Converted from underground bunkers,the station is like an Art Gallery,with motifs,carvings and paintings adoring the walls and archways. Not bad !;3;August 27, 2017
A clean, economical, and beautiful way to get around Moscow;We spent several days wandering around Moscow and found the metro to be an excellent way to get around.  The trains come every two minutes and the map is easy to follow as long as you know Russian.  The stations are beautiful works of art and all were very clean.  The cost was only 35 rubles making it very affordable.  We would buy a card and ride for days.;5;August 27, 2017
Nice!;I rate this place 4 out of 5 just because this place is  ametro. Not a resturant or a bar. So yeah. But overall- really clean, nice and cute. Really usefull!;4;August 27, 2017
Stations of Art;Riding the Metro was one of the most fascinating experiences. Be warned, the first escalator taking you down is super fast and you have to hold on to the railing. The stations are loaded with different kinds of art. There is no trash, or nasty smells, it may be the cleanest subway system on Earth. It is very safe down there and there is no reason to be afraid. It pays to get a map of the system and plan your trip beforehand.One entry fee is good for multiple rides as long as you do not leave the system, therefore you do not have to pay for transfers. During the work days the system is very busy, but trains come very frequently so if you miss one, the next one will be along shortly. Sundays are a good day to stop at multiple stations to enjoy the art.;5;August 25, 2017
Fabulous;Unforgettable experience. Real art in real life. I envy resident of Moscow in this wealth. Something most beautiful I ever saw.;5;August 24, 2017
Awesome Treat;A visit to the Moscow Metro is a must for all - the history of each station is awesome and very noteworthy.It's appropriately rewarded with the recognition as the worlds best system. The creativity wrapped inside is very inspiring. A highlight of any visit to Moscow.;5;August 24, 2017
Very efficient way to get around;Easy to navigate even if you don't speak Russian.  A great bargain too.  Train card very loud and closing doors are unforgiving.;4;August 24, 2017
Really beautiful!;These stations are all so beautiful and once you pay for one ticket, you can check them all out for free so long as you stay down there. Trains are so regular that you can see many of these beautiful stations in as little as an hour. No tour necessary.;5;August 24, 2017
Very efficient transportation;The system is will planned and efficient in transportation. Stations are very impressive in their appearance.The trains move fast and are frequent.Yet the trains are extremely old, ugly, not smooth and worse of all - extremely noisy. You can't even talk to one another during the ride...;4;August 23, 2017
What an experience;Nothing that you hear or read can prepare you for the sights that you will see. Truly awesome. More like an upmarket mall or hotel corridors than a train station. Do not miss;5;August 23, 2017
Fantastic;Moscow Metro is for me heart and soul of the city and it's the easiest way in Moscow to get to anywhere. Architecture of the stations are fantastic and unique. Must visit.;5;August 23, 2017
Worth seeing;Yes everyone says the metro in Moscow is worth seeing, well it really is a metro with beauties worth seeing. But not all the stations are the same, some are very plain with nothing special, others cannot be appreciated by everyone, but some are like museums, so keep using the metro it really is a convenient mode of travel.;4;August 22, 2017
Astonished;When you are told about Metro tour, you kind of wonder what can they show you in Metro. But in Moscow, Metro is an eye opener...after seeing stinky, dillapilated train station when you see the first metro station buit probably before the world wars and looking amazingly beautiful and grand- you raise a salute to that country and in heart- your head hangs in shame. We talk about culture and heritage, we have no right to do so...I really wish instead of raising slogans, we must just visit the Metro stations in Moscow.Most important- there are no dustbins in any of the metros and the place is as clean as our homes...so much for Clean India tax..I did not ask if Russians paid any tax to keep their stations clean. Most surely No.;5;August 22, 2017
Good if you can read Cyrilic;Moscow Metro can be the most efficient transport in Moscow if you could read the Cyrillic alphabet. The railroad maps displayed in each wagon are a guarantee, that you will never get lost, as long as you know, which stop, marks your destination.;5;August 22, 2017
Riding the Metro;Be advised that all the signage within the Metro stations are in Russian, so if you brought a map in English it's not going to do you any good.  It wasn't until I got to my hotel that I was able to get a map that had both English and Russian that I was able to efficiently figure out the system.  My first night there, once it had started to quite down, I spent about an hour figuring out the system.  It was well worth the time since from that point forward I never got lost ... and I used the system heavily.  I found getting the 20 pass card saved me both time and money (i.e., only one trip to a ticket office).  As an aside, it's an amazing system.  The stations are beautiful.  The Park Pobedy station is the deepest in the world.  The escalator ride alone takes 3 minutes.  People watching from the escalators is great fun as well.;5;August 21, 2017
good;plz turn your langues to english im lost in the metro i didnt saw english map or board please Pay attention  to the tourist.;5;August 21, 2017
A little overwhelming but you get the hang of it!;The metro is like the underground in London or the metro in Paris. The only (big) issue for the faint of heart is that the names of the stations are in Cyrillic. I'd say learn the alphabet before you go or get a hold of an English/Cyrillic map so you know the Russian stop to get off.;4;August 21, 2017
Don't miss it;Just buy yourself a ticket and get off and on at some stations on the way. The metro is scaringly deep (don't look down the escalator if you have a fear of heigths), but the views are worth it.;5;August 21, 2017
The best underground stations ever;They were beautiful and really easy to find directions there . You can download its map and it also offers different types of tickets for those who know how many times they use underground;5;August 20, 2017
Art -wow;Worth a visit ! The art and statures are amazing. A glimpse into soviet art and propaganda but beautifully done from a pure artistic view. Commuters are rushing by - like the London tube -but us tourists are busy gawking and taking photos. Don't miss this if you are in Moscow.;5;August 20, 2017
By far the most beautiful metro;Now this is a real piece of art! I usually do not fancy a metro that much, but the one in Moscow is a different piece of cake. About ten metro stations are worth exploration, with marvelous murals, mozaics, paintings, lanterns etc. Try to avoid rush hour if you want to make some nice pics. Another bonus is the entrance price for this attraction: just one ticket of 55 Rb will suffice!;5;August 20, 2017
Always on time;We love the metro despite the lack of lifts. There is some great architecture and design - my favourite is Ploshad Revolutzi which makes it a tourist destination as much as a means of transport. Main thing is that it is a very convenient way to get around moscow, inexpensive and always on time!;5;August 20, 2017
A must see while in Moscow!;In case you are not aware, Moscow has some of the most beautiful subway stations in the world. All were completed while Stalin was in power.  They vary from station to station, some have mosaics, others have stained glass or hand painted murals, chandeliers, statues,  etc, etc.   Important note - not all stations have this artistry.  We had a private tour guide that took us and I think she said one of every four is the level described above.  For this reason, if you are visiting on your own, you need to do some homework so you visit the right stations as the subway system is very extensive with many lines.;5;August 19, 2017
A Must Do!;Moscow subway stations are beautiful. We visited 5 and each one is so different from the one before!  No graffiti anywhere that I could see, and the cars are very clean. Also no loud voices are allowed, so although these stations are packed with people moving in every direction, it is not completely crazy!;5;August 19, 2017
Really interesting;Visiting the Metro is a must in Moscow.  It is really interesting to see the paintings and chandeliers. Apart from the fantastic surroundings, the trains are frequent, cheap and clean;5;August 19, 2017
you must find time to see the amazing stations;We heard so much about the stations we had to see for ourselves but nothing prepared us for those stations. They are amazing, some stations have themes and are so special. I highly recommend you go to see them;5;August 19, 2017
Take your time!;Instead of rushing out of the metro or rushing to catch a train, stop and look at your surroundings. More often than not, they are incredibly beautiful, and even some of the less popular stations are still interesting (for example Partizanskaya);5;August 19, 2017
Amazing def need to visit;Take a trip around several stations, but avoid rush hour. The art is great and it's clean and efficient;5;August 18, 2017
Moscow Metro;The Metro is one not to be missed - the glorious architecture hidden benbeath the streets of the city. Many of the early built stations were decorated in a very opulent style, with marble columns, mosaics, chandeliers abnd semi precious stones. This was well worth a visit.;5;August 18, 2017
Some stations are like museums, and it is an efficient transportation system;The metro system in Moscow is very good, an efficient for of transportation. Additionally, you can hire a tour guide to see some of the old stations, which are practically museums.;4;August 18, 2017
Amazing metro culture;Visited x 4 stations to view their specific style, really liked the bronze coloured lifestyle sculptures, particularly the dog that everyone "pats". Also liked the station with paintings, all well worth a visit;4;August 18, 2017
Excellent renovation of old stations;I have not visited Moscow for several years, and I hardly believed that such a enormous work of renovation of old station could be done in such a good way and so fast. My EU friend asked me if the Kuznetsky Most is a relatively new station and when was it constructed ;)) He was shocked to know the real age of this station. Moscow subway is the best in comparison to all other European large cities. Highly recommend to visit!;5;August 18, 2017
Best way to get around - do not ignore the artwork!;We used this system often and it is reliable and fast.  It certainly gets busy at rush hours, but relax, as the next train is there in only five minutes.Walk around and take in the great hallways and ceilings filled with Soviet artwork.;5;August 17, 2017
Moscow Metro is more than just a ride;The Moscow Metro is journey into the past history of Russia.  The stations are showcases of culture, art and former Communist society.  There are a number of stations that you should try to see.  They are examples of art deco styles of the early 20th century, stained glass and marble.  Instead of being in a subway station, you feel that you are in a museum or gilded mansion.  If you feel you cannot do this yourself, take a guided tour.;5;August 17, 2017
State of Art;Awesome, the stations are more of a galleria than a station, its a grand display of paintings and arts. I was amazed at the exhibits at the Kiev metro station , it was spellbinding, all time hit ...Great;5;August 17, 2017
Wave of crowd in museum tunnel;It's really a museum underground. Train is fast. Crowd is huge. You must know Russian language or have a guide to make your way out. But the ancient art is fabulous. Note: traveling to Moscow is full of problems without a language background.;4;August 17, 2017
One of many Moscow Metro stations;The Metro stations was an eye-opener. Keen on photography, I saw an article by a professional photographer which contained a small portfolio of photos taken of a number of stations. We had a pleasant couple of hours on the Metro, stopping for a few photos and then back on. Tickets are 55 ruples — about £1.20 for two. Great value.;5;August 17, 2017
Like descending into the middle of the earth;While in Moscow be sure to experience the metro. Even if you just go a short distance. It is quite the experience for most Americans, especially West Coast folks, who have never been on a metro. First be ready to quarrel with the old Babushkas that sell the metro tickets. Yes, they are surly and short tempered. Try to have the correct change to avoid their bad attitude. As you get on the very long and deep escalators that take you down to the platforms, you will smell the heavy hydraulic fluid use by the trains and the air will become stale and heavy. Enjoy the experience. If you have time get off the metro at each stop and take in the art and architecture. It would be very, very helpful if you study the Russian alphabet a little before going, at least so you can recognize the letters. All the stations are in Russian so take special note of where you want to go, or get off. The station is announced over the loud speaker before each station but is hard to hear what is said (again, in Russian). The station names also appear on the wall just before entering that particular station. At first it was intimidating but after a few trips it became exciting and my primary method of getting around Moscow. Highly recommended!One Important Note: Unless you are traveling with a tour group or guide, always be sure to have your passport on you and available. It is not unusual for the military or police to stop and ask for it. Avoid hassles. It seems Russian citizens are checked often and if you are with them, they will also ask for your passport.;4;August 16, 2017
Beautiful interiors, must visit;Traffic in Moscow is TERRIBLE.  The metro is a great way to get around the city, and you get the added bonus of seeing some beautifully designed stations. My 12 year old daughter and I rode from Paveletsky to Teatralnaya (which is a beautiful station). You can pay for a formal tour, or just look up some of the most popular stations and ride for a few rubles. I found the Cyrillic station name to be a challenge, but I just looked up a map with English names. I also had a number of nice Moscovites help me out. Ride felt safe and relatively easy.;4;August 16, 2017
The best.History and spirit;The best place to see people, architecture,feel history of Russia.Recommend you read about legendary mosaic and decorations..Now metro is bigger and modern, but the central stations are fantastic;5;August 16, 2017
Moscow Metro simply incredible;Apart from Easy to use and very fast with frequent trains the Metro stations are all unique with elaborate art work and Soviet era themes. The mosaics are extraordinary. Access varies not all stations have escalators. Recommend having a look at the inner ring route 5. Oh and try looking when it's not peak hour...;5;August 16, 2017
THE SCOTTISH GLOBETROTTERS;Boarded this famous attraction not to escape the nose to tail traffic but to see the decor. You will be amazed. The detailed artwork on the walls and ceilings has to be seen to be believed.The one cost ticket makes it a very cheap way of seeing various stations with the grandeur improving as you get closer to the centre. The Metro system is very clean, but be warned, you do not get much time to board the train before the doors close so if you are in a large group you have to push your way on quickly .Well worth a visit with your camera.;4;August 16, 2017
Amazing metro;The metro service of Moskow is really amazing. You can go almost everywhere with metro inside of the city. Also the metro can connect you with the express train for the airport and with the main railway station of the city. The price is very cheap:almost 55rubli.;5;August 16, 2017
Great experience;Took a quick ride for the experience and to see the beautiful architecture and decorations.Very inexpensive and felt save.  Glad we did it.;5;August 16, 2017
The Rest of the World can Learn Something;The Moscow Metro is one of the architectural wonders of Moscow.  Not all stations are the Stalinist era wonders.  Many are quite futuristic and a large number are just functional but the older stations in the centre are as stunning as we had been led to believe.  They are all different built along themes with depictions of Soviet life.What you won't see until you go is that it's an amazing metro system.  It's incredibly clean, incredibly safe and the trains run every two minutes.  Our guides told us they felt happy letting their children from a young age travel unaccompanied on the metro because it was safe, and it is.Stunning.  Metros are usually just a way to get around.  Moscow's is a destination by itself.;5;August 16, 2017
Many stations are spectacular...;... and, all in all, a great way to get around this huge city. Some of the newer stations might not be quite as palatal as the likes of Novoslobodskaya or Mayakovskaya, but the newest stations tend to be very nice as well. Also, both the signs and the station announcements are now bilingual (English in addition to Russian);5;August 15, 2017
Must see;It's a different historical sightseeing for you.Every stations have different designs with a lot of stories.You should make a plan for visiting the best stations and read about their stories.;5;August 14, 2017
It's like a museum;Visiting Moscow metro is a must.Each station has a different design to others. Some of them are like a museum hall.I suggest you Google on internet about the beautiful stations and how directly to those stations.I selected 5 stations in line 5 (the ring).Be careful about the timing and avoid the rush time (morning or afternoon on weekdays);4;August 14, 2017
Feel Like a Native;The Metros are all in Russian.  Although at a stop they some something in English, good luck with that.  We had a personal tour guide for the day and wanted to remain by the Kremlin.  Befroe she left us she went with us to get a metro card to ride later back towards our hotel.  She wrote the name of the station in Cyrrilic alphabet.  When we got to the station my husband was sure we needed tog o left and I was sure to the right (married life).  He looked at the last three letters while i looked at  the first, middle and last.  Of course my direction was correct because many of the station names ended in the same letters.  So if you are going to ride pay close attention.  Otherwise it was safe, easy and inexpensive, and of course fun.  I felt tlike a native.;5;August 14, 2017
Unbelievable artistic subway stations;Want to see amazing art in Moscow, but do not have time? Do not go to an art gallery - just take the subway system. We had a guide, but if you do not have one, just do some research in advance, and go to the best examples (which are within a few stops of The Kremlin/Red Square.Mosaics, statues, chandeliers - everything has a unique design and meaning.;5;August 14, 2017
World Famous;Most of the metro stations in Moscow are little pearls.It is a good idea to take the dark  green inner ring line, and make a full circle, stepping out at every station and look around. You will find that one station is even more beautiful than the other.Good to still enjoy a rainy day.;5;August 14, 2017
Everything in Russian;We went from the hotel by metro to the red square. This was really a challenge as we could not (of course) the Russian directions. Anyhow, in the end we reached destination. Impressed by the nice metro tunnels.;3;August 14, 2017
Certainly worth the visit;We had a guide who took us to about 6 stations although there were many more, this gave us a great feel for its grandeur, really worth seeing. I would suggest a local guide though as they can really bring it to life.;5;August 14, 2017
Truly Awesome in every way;I spent a year in Moscow and was blown away by the metro again and again. Many of the stations (particularly those on the Koltsevaya (or orbital) line are breathtakingly beautiful. Komsomolskaya, with its baroque opulence, is my personal favourite but there are many others worth seeing. The scale and efficiency of the system is awesome.A ride costs next to nothing. The rush hour service is the most frequent  I have ever seen (40 seconds between trains). A trip  is invariably full of opportunities for people watching. A uniquely muscovite experence.;5;August 13, 2017
You wont miss anything special!;I was really interested to go and check out the metro stations because the information at the hotel desks and Pamphlets were really promoting these metro stations. We got an impression that the station were very grand and special, so we specially took out time and did a little research to see the top 5 metro stations to visit in Moscow. By the end of the 3rd metro station each one of us knew that it was nothing that significant. I'm not saying they are not nice but just not as grand as they are made out to be.  Definately not something for a which a paid tour would justify or not as good that you take out time to visit one. You can enjoy them if you happen to be there.;3;August 13, 2017
Beautiful subway;Beautiful stations and very efficient transport system. Just query the web and find the most beautiful stations. However, each one has something to see.;5;August 13, 2017
The most beautiful subway;There are special excursions and tours covering Moscow Subway, many stations are looking like ballrooms or cathedrals.As a transportation system it leaves a lot for improvement. Sometimes the signs to connectiong stations are confusing even if you are able to read cyrillic. They are starting to adding English signs. The way to pay is convenient - tourists can buy daily (or 3d or 7d) tickets that cover other public transportation too.My main complaint is... stairs. I did not see a sigle station where there are no stairs. Mainly it was not a problem, but it is extremely difficult to navigate with suitcase. Do they not have mothers with strollers or disabled people moving around?;4;August 11, 2017
Interesting but confusing!;We did a self-tour based from a blog. The metro is confusing........reading Russian is a must to get around by metro. And although I do read Russian, the maps and layout were very confusing. The metro people speak little English and can't really help. However once you get going, the metro stations are beautiful and elaborate, unlike any other metro system in the world. Some have different themes.;4;August 11, 2017
Learn the Cyrillic alphabet.;Breathtaking beautifully build stations.. We had no chance without knowing the Cyrillic alphabet.  Take the tour by yourself, and enjoy all the different stations.;5;August 10, 2017
Musuem Subway;Anybody come to Moscow should visit Moscow Subway because of different reasons which this place is like a gallery and musuem and so many stories and historical topic is behind it, you can see Stalin job there , also after Stalin period.;5;August 10, 2017
NOT to be missed;its incredible, unbelievable and definitely not to be missed.  Get a guided tour didn't have time ourselves just got a metro ticket and kept getting off at the next station looking around and then getting on next metro. then got metro back to whence we had come.  this method is very cheap and gives you a taste.  but would have liked someone to give us more info.;5;August 10, 2017
Amazing network;This is a metro that has an amazing network.  Not only is it vertical and horizontal but is has circular routes too.  You can connect from anywhere to anywhere.  Buy a Troika card so you can get cheaper prices and the convenience of topping it up.  They accept cards;5;August 10, 2017
The best underground in the world!;When you will be in Moscow you will certainly need to visit the Moscow subway. And to visit exactly its central part which is located inside the ring branch. I assure you that such a beauty comparable to the works of the world's best art galleries you will not see in any other city in the world.;5;August 9, 2017
There are Metros/ Undergrounds and then there is Moscow Metro;When we visited Moscow were were fortunate enough to be provided with a tour guide, who took us around Moscow underground. It is the most incredible place and we did query why it was so ornate and why so much money had obviously been spent on it. We were informed that, during the leadership of Joseph Starlin, there was a great deal of poverty, deprivation and unrest. His people were not happy, so he wanted to create a safe place, where they could visit and experience opulence and be amidst a wealthy, beautiful environment. This was a far cry from their destitute lifestyles and the hope was that this experience of beauty would make them feel happier. The whole of Moscow underground is made up of chandeliers, bronze statues, detailed ceramic structures and walls, stunning paintings and murals on walls, floors and ceilings. It feels like being in a cathedral, as opposed to an underground. I encourage anyone visiting Moscow to take a trip or two on the underground. It truly is an amazing place!;5;August 9, 2017
Do experience the metro system;Magnificent structures and designs, easy to navigate. Every station is worth a look with great designs and execution.;5;August 9, 2017
Best way to get any places;When I was in Moscow , I used only metro to get one place to another . They are faster ,Moscow metro stations are so nice decorated with old paintings ,specially I saw Komsomolskaya , Kievskaya .The only thing I didn't like there was missing English sign board ,they are mostly in Russian , these thing they should improve.;4;August 9, 2017
An amazing traveling way...;You can reach everywhere easily with Metro. Metro Stations are very beautiful, historical places. But especially old stations do not have lifts. If you travel with baby stroller, it is to hard to use the long escalators. It is even more difficult for someone who is afraid of heights.;4;August 9, 2017
Home Metro;Novoslobodskaya metro was my home for 5 years, and the mosy spectacular of all metro stations in MOW. With the excellent Novotel hotel across the street, and Pistols & Dolls bar and restaurant around the corner, this is a great neighborhood to stay and explore.;5;August 8, 2017
What elegance;Hard to believe that a public transportation system can have such clean and beautifully decorated stations.  You could spend the whole day just traveling from one station to another and admiring the décor.;5;August 8, 2017
On Par with the Washington DC Metro, with better art at stations;We took the Moscow Metro from the Red Square area to Victory Park just for the experience.  From Revolutionary Square station each stop offers beautiful artwork of the history of each stop.  The trains themselves are clean, fast, and pretty self explanatory if you know how to read, although not in English.;5;August 8, 2017
Amazing!!;It was fun and interesting to travel in the metro and stop to visit the stations that are known to have a theme . Each one is different and amazing!M;5;August 8, 2017
Beautifully ornate.;Sensational art, sculptures in Moscow . No you're not in an art gallery but the underground Metro. Built in the 1930s these beautifully ornate stations are a must see in Moscow. The stand outs are Komsomolskaya and Ploshchad Revolyutsil.;5;August 8, 2017
Best way to get around in Moscow;When traveling in Moscow this is the best way to get around the city. Don't be intimidated - very very clean and trains run every minute. Tickets are very cheap - English wording is on all of the trains and many of the stations. Really impressive - makes the subways in the US look primitive.;5;August 8, 2017
Magnificent architecture, cheap and super efficient;I have a car but still I always use the metro.  It is such an easy way to get around Moscow, a train comes at worst every 2 minutes and in rush hour every 30 or 40 seconds.  The Moscow metro is a must see.;5;August 8, 2017
Different;They did really put a lot of effort into underground. Priceless. Most of stations in city center are masterpieces, each of them is unique. Don't waste ur time being stuck in traffic, enjoy metro, but better with Russian friend as it's not very easy to navigate. Tho it has improved a lot recently.;5;August 7, 2017
Excellent cheap travel!;Probably the cleanest and best looking underground train stations I have ever used! A bit hard trying to read Russian to try find your stops, however most the trains we were on had translated English on the trains. I found it easy to count the stations when to get on and off! Great way to travel;5;August 7, 2017
Worth a visit;In my opinion is one of the most spectacular metro in the world. It's comparable with the one in St. Petersburg, that also is suggested to visit.;5;August 7, 2017
Stunning;I did a tour of some of the most spectacular Moscow Metro stations with a local friend who was able to share lots of local knowledge and history. It also meant I could avoid most of the rather large tour parties that travel the metro specifically to sight-see the amazing décor. But the system is easily navigable by a solo visitor with clear colour-coded lines. Where else in the world would you  see stunning chandeliers, statues and artwork in an underground station? Just try to keep out of the way of travelling Muscovites who just want to get to work, or home, on time.;5;August 7, 2017
Like a museum;Our guide took us through several of the Metro stops, they are just beautiful, each one different than the next. Really worth exploring at least one or two of them.;5;August 7, 2017
Where History and Art combined;Dear Travelers, for sure Moscow Metro is a place you may visit it, try to choose lines and see stations, there you can find a lot about past history and how they make that art on those times.;5;August 7, 2017
Moscow Metro - Best in the World?;Firstly, let me say that we never used the Metro at peak times - early morning and late afternoon when it is apparently, at both times packed to bursting. When we travelled on it we were nearly always able to get a seat right away.Many other reviewers will have reported on the many, beautiful, ornate stations within the systems and everything they say is true ,absolutely wonderful.I want to comment on the more practical issues of the Metro.Firstly, the trains are very regular - approximately every two minutes. Next, they are VERY cheap - around 70p to go anywhere. The most striking thing for me about the Metro, like the rest of Moscow (we found), VERY clean and VERY safe. There is absolutely NO litter, discarded newspapers, paper cups etc... anywhere - either on the trains or within the stations - none. At first we thought this was maybe just in the tourist used areas but after taking the full circumference of the Moscow Central Circle, which circles the outskirts of Moscow and takes well over an hour to complete we found all the stations just the same, litter free. There is also no vandalism and virtually no graffiti. This is true throughout the system, many of the signs must be 50 years old, beautifully retro. There are statues, coloured glass and tiled murals, in many stations,all untouched by the hands of non-existent vandals.We also never saw any anti social behaviour of any kind on the trains although this was true of the whole of Moscow - very safe.Perhaps the most difficult thing to master is reading the directional signs and Metro pamphlets although once on the trains the "next station" recordings are in both Russia and English.In conclusion found the Metro to be very efficient, clean, safe and often very beautiful - but don't use at peak times.;5;August 6, 2017
Fabulous stations and efficient service;Purchase a daily ticket and go anywhere on the metro. The trains are very clean and spacious and run frequently.  It is easy to find your way around if you want to change lines.We spent a morning hopping on and off the trains and wandering around the stations.  They are beautiful. All of them are works of art.  I particularly liked Ploschad Revolutsii which has a wealth of wonderful bronze statues depicting the workers and soldiers that helped in the revolution and a dog.  Interestingly the dog's nose is discoloured as it is touched for good luck.;5;August 6, 2017
Best metro on earth;I have never experienced a more beautiful metro system in all of my travels.  The stations are architecturally beautiful.  Everything works from the escalators to the trains.  The trains run often, never having to wait long for the next.  Everything is clean!  Although it is a bit difficult to navigate if you don't know the local language, with a little patience, it is easily worked out.;5;August 5, 2017
a Metro like no other;Each metro stop is different.  Consider it a museum of sorts.  The chandeliers alone are fabulous.  Some of the stops have murals, art, stained glass windows.  A must to see.;5;August 4, 2017
Stunning;It really is true that many of the stations are serious tourist attractions. And with the trains running every two minutes, you can afford to take the time to enjoy the stations.;5;August 4, 2017
Cheapest sightseeing ever;One single journey ticket allows you to see all the fantastic and impressive stations of the unique Moscow metro. Can be very crowded so try to travel off rushhour. Felt much saver than most European and US metro networks;5;August 3, 2017
Beautiful;You must go on the Metro if you visit Moscow. For the price of 55 roubles you can travel for as long or as far as you want. If you come into a station that looks interesting hop off then catch the next train - they run every 90 seconds - quicker during rush hour. If you think you might use the Metro a lot, as Moscow is a big city, my advice would be to buy a 20 trip ticket or you can buy day tickets. If you buy a multi trip ticket it is perfectly OK to go through the barrier passing the ticket back to other members in your party. This is what we did. Once you are through the barriers you don't need the ticket again to get out. The lines are colour coded and once you taken a couple of journeys they are easy to navigate. The trains vary from very old to modern, and most trains have announcements in English as well as Russian for the next station stop. Most maps show the English version of the station name as well as Russian and the ticket booths often have English speaking tellers. There are also ticket machines that you can use which have an English translation button and you can pay for the tickets on credit card.;5;August 3, 2017
Must see!;The metro stations in Moscow are like nowhere decorated with ornate chandeliers and frescoes. And just for 55 rubles for one person.;4;August 3, 2017
Better than average subway;I work and live in NYC City and am proud of our system. The Moscow subway is more efficient, cleaner and actually impressive.  I would recommend spending a lot of time underground - but, the stations are for the most part are ornate...it is a great way to get around in Moscow.;4;August 2, 2017
Amazingly beautiful stations;We took a 3 days pass for the public transport and Moscow's underground was the highlight.The stations are amazingly beautiful and you shouldn't miss them.However the trains used in the underground are quite loud.Anyways can recommend to take the metro.;4;August 2, 2017
Quick and efficient;Metro could bring us to different part of moscow easily. We can buy tickets from machine or counter with staffs. Although we cant understand russian, it is still easy to find the station name and platform we should go. In line 1, there is english announcment about what the next stop is. Very good for tourists. No air con in the metro but we feel much better than in london underground. The metro itself is rather old. The train comes often so you neednt worry to miss one or two. Exit is clearly marked and seen.;4;August 2, 2017
Amazing Moscow gem;Visiting Moscow's underground was one of the greatest experiences on my trip to Russia. i really recommend you to go for it. Take one day and take it easy. Recommended time- around 4hrs (depending on "quality of your pics"). It took up to 15min to wait for a great shot!I am sure you'll find tours around underground with the guide etc. (yes I've seen the toured groups there). I did it all by myself and it was fun!I found on internet the most stunning metro stations in Moscow. I marked ten of them (there is more, but I wanted to visit only those) on the metro map and I planned the route. As most of those beauties are on the “circle” line L5, it was really easy to visit them all.Have fun!;5;August 1, 2017
Decorative stations from the 1930s;We really enjoyed using the world famous Moscow Metro system recently. This is a effective and cheap way to make your way around the city and an opportunity to enjoy decorative stations and metro platforms from the 1930s. The Moscow Metro was constructed in the 1930s in order to meet the increased transportation needs to support the rapid industrialisation of the city. At that time, many of the finest artists in the Soviet Union were brought to the city to design and decorate its various new stations. Socialist, patriotic and nationalism ideals were artistically incorporated into the stations giving them attractive sculpture, carvings, reliefs, marble floors, columns and arches which can still be viewed and enjoyed today when you enter/exit the stations and walk the platforms waiting for metro train service. We very much enjoyed seeing the historic design and artworks of the Moscow Metro and would consider this something of a national treasure for Russia, something I hope is preserved and protected for future generations to enjoy.;4;August 1, 2017
A fantastic trip in time in this ornate environment;What a great experience to see and be part of this historic site. To see the history unfold as you walk along the underground passages and look at the paintings, decorating and telling the history of the country. The bust of Lenin and the ornate decorations .The metro was very clean and bright,  we rode for about an hour or so and found it very impressive;5;August 1, 2017
A worthwhile experience as long as you are not in a hurry;A lot has been written about the history of the Moscow Metro including by other reviewers and will not refer to it. For me as a business traveler who traveled to Moscow for the first time, the Metro provided a fast and economic way of travelling within the city. I needed though to spend some time on the first day to try and understand the complicated connections between the metro lines and decipher cyrillic signs as there are only few of them in English. It is clean and amazingly punctual with trains arriving throughout the day at a pace of 1'-1,5'..... Some central lines and stations are better equipped with signs and announcements in English. I said that I would refer to its history but I have to say that travelling in the Moscow underground is an experience in itself and often a travel in time (some trains even carry marks of their date of production in the 1930's...);4;August 1, 2017
Amazing;The metro art differs from stop to stop. Some honor the workers of the Revolution and after, others are beautiful with the materials used, another is tile work honoring friendship with Ukraine (ironic).;5;August 1, 2017
User friendly & pretty;Old system but good to use, and cheap as well. Some of the stations are very pretty at it, as well. The metro's themselves look a bit older, but are clean and perform good. Busy at the peak hours.;4;July 30, 2017
helps you slow down and relax;I find that this is just the place to slow down and relax for a few minutes if not more before you move on. It is clean well designed and safe for pasengers to move about. It is also my favourite meeting spot to catch up with friends take a selfie and move on.;5;July 30, 2017
Out of this world;This is truly an amazing place to visit, yes a metro. However jump on the brown circle line and just jump off at the various stations in the line and you'll be taken by surprise at the splendour of these stations. They are similar to museums than metro stations. Incredible is the only way to describe these stations.;5;July 30, 2017
A Must See Experience;What an amazing show or architecture and statues.  Marble everywhere and so clean.  Easy to navigate but if you need help most young people speak English and are very willing to give advice;5;July 30, 2017
tour of the moscow metro stations;I was blown away by the beauty of these staions, each one was an art gallery. Important to go with a guide, there is so much to learn and hear about.;5;July 29, 2017
Very beautiful Metro!;We originally went on Metro to central Moscow area with guide. We went back later with new cruise friends.  A rider on Metro helped us by telling which stop to take!  Was beautiful interior!;5;July 29, 2017
Beautiful, interesting, easy to navigate.;We printed a map of the Moscow metro system before coming to Moscow. It proved invaluable. Most of the signs and announcements now are also in English so it's really pretty easy to navigate. So for a couple bucks, my son and I spent about ninety minutes hopping on and off at various stations to take pictures and explore a bit. The trains come along every couple minutes like clockwork so you can see a lot in a short period of time. Perfect to do on a rainy or cold day. I've included my notes below. Mayakovskaya metro station (1938)Station where Stalin had a special refuge place during World War II. Considered by many to be the jewel in the Moscow Metro crown, Mayakovskaya is a marvel of futurist Soviet design and the forebear for many other stations on the system. This strikingly elegant station is decked with gleaming stainless steel and pink rhodonite columns beautifully contrasting with white Ufaley and grey Diorite marble walls, topped off with 34 brilliant ceiling mosaics depicting an idealist Soviet future.Belorruskaya metro stationThe station which was called in honor of the “Russian’s sister” ex-republic, nowadays independent country Belarus. In the station we will find marble mosaics, each mosaic has its own history. We will see why Moscow metro is so popular and well-known and why it can surprise us.Novoslobodskaya metro station Station with magic windows – stained glass, we will see also the mosaic of Pável Korin “Peace all over the world”.Kievskaya metro station (1954) Another “Russia’s sister station” was made in honor to Ukraine, in this station we find varies mosaics that tell us moments of history and highlights between Russia and Ukraine. We will discover why it is called Kievskaya and what secrets hide behind mosaics. This white marbled station is bursting with elaborate artworks, frescoes and mosaics depicting life in Ukraine and soldiers during the October Revolution and the Civil War. Construction of the palatial Kiyevskaya was overseen by Nikita Kruschev who, as a Ukrainian himself, wanted to build a monument to the country’s contribution to the creation of Soviet Russia. Ploshchad Revolyutsii metro station (1938) This impressive station features no less than 76 magnificent bronze statues of soldiers, farmers, schoolchildren, workers and a whole host of other characters who helped “defend the Soviet nation”. Ploschad Revolyutsii is at the dead centre of the Arbatsko-Pokrovskaya Line and is the best stop for visiting Red Square.Kurskaya Station Lobby, the Hall of Fame of the WWII  Novoslobodskaya, with the stained glass;5;July 29, 2017
Hugh and Beautiful;Each station has its own style...it could take more than a day just to visit them all...bit there are some highlights stations that you can find more info from google.Using metro here can be a bit confusing at first as there is no English sign.tips, if you use google map or english metro map...you must use russians letters as stations name in russian and english is totally different!;5;July 29, 2017
Unbelievable.;These stations are beautiful.  No litter, no graffiti and spotlessly clean.  You will find buskers mostly playing classical music that is worthy of concert halls and most people give a donation. The architecture is a must see.  Even the small stations are beautiful.;5;July 28, 2017
A Must See While in Moscow;Wow the metro is a fantastic place to visit, kind of like a work of art and museum in the same place.  All of the stations and lines have a different kind of art work.  Some have bronze statues, some have stained glass and some of beautiful chandeliers and sculptures and art work.  Very clean and no graffiti.  There are no washrooms in any of the metro stations and I think this is one of the reasons that they can keep them so clean.;5;July 28, 2017
Amazing;You need not be a fan of Metro to do this tour as it gives you a good idea of history, culture and people of Russia. The stations build during Soviet area showcase a lot of paintings, portraits, sculptures. Even the ceilings and floors are work of art. Do not miss these stations. Avoid peak hours though.;4;July 28, 2017
Awesome;Everything is as the stories tell - beautiful stations, lots of art and architecture sites. If you are a fan of Metro 2033/4/5 - a must visit :);5;July 27, 2017
Beauty load metro😂;I really enjoyed walking moscow's metro stations and they are really really beautiful and also the metro is tooo louuud;5;July 27, 2017
Underground art.;What an amazing experience. We travelled on the underground through 8 stops. What fantastic works of art from the 50's.;5;July 27, 2017
Unbelievably Plush;A tour of the Moscow underground metro system is an absolute must do when you are in the city. We visited five or six stations marked for us on a map by our G Adventures guide and each one was more magnificent and plush than the last. The ceilings are festooned by mosaics and frescoes, hanging chandeliers, busts of Lenin and other heroes. Some are thematic such as the station devoted to Ukrainian history and independance. They really are jaw droppingly beautiful, more like museums than train stations. You really have to see them to beleive it.;4;July 27, 2017
A stately train ride;A number of the Metro stations are like going into a very large ballroom, they are so well and elegantly decorated it takes you by surprise after being used to the london tube stations. The train cabins are full size train cabins and not small like the london tube cabins, there was no graffiti, no rubbish on the train floors and they ran on time and very cheap to use.;5;July 27, 2017
the most beautiful metro in the world.;It is true that Moscow metro is the most beautiful in the world: celings, statues, marble walls.... and the speed is very good. Just not possible to enjoy of all of this during peak hours.;5;July 26, 2017
Crowdy but fascinating;Moscow metro is obviously a very important place to see while in Russia as it represents amazing architecture styles. All stations (and trains) are clean, but beware of some "traffic jams" here: from 8am to 10am and from 5pm to 7pm you better don't go visit Moscow metro as you might find way too much people, thus it will be uncomfortable for you to sightseeing. Anyway, the metro is also cheap (comparing to many other European subways) and seems like a best option for commuting in Moscow.;4;July 26, 2017
Beautifully Diverse;One of the key attractions of my Moscow tour was the Moscow Metro Tour. I did it myself, without help of any tour guide. But the staff of the Hostel I stayed helped me a lot in narrowing down the stations so that I could cover the most important (both historic and aesthetic) ones within one afternoon.It would take some time to be adjusted with the colour coding of the train lines (I have some previous experiences with London Metro which helped in coping), but after that it's quite easy to roam.I loved the Komsomolskaya & Novoslobodskaya Station. Don't miss them. :);5;July 25, 2017
Very good;Especially ,teatralnaya and mayakovskaya, true piece of art,  trip to the metro can be interesting , fun and it mirrors the beats of the city heart;5;July 25, 2017
Of course you should try to visit as many as you can while cruising Moscow (and keep your eyes open);Yup, the metro is huge and the metro is crowed but the Moscow metro is also really beautiful. It takes a lot of walking each time, but hopping the metro lines or just getting out in many while visiting is a must.;5;July 25, 2017
Lucky to be with Russian friend;I was lucky to be with my Russian friend Yulia who showed me around including Red Square, Bolshoi Theatre tour, Moscow state University.  Included were trips using the metro.  As others have said, the some of the stations are spectacular.  I found travelling around, even with my limited Russian, relatively easy.  Take your time though and enjoy the art work.;5;July 25, 2017
People's palaces;This is probably the most beautiful metro complex I have ever seen in my last life. Each station has a theme and each panel tell Russian tales of bravery, of commitment, compassion , love, religion, ethnicities...;5;July 25, 2017
A Metro like no other;A cheap and efficient way to get around Moscow. Some of the most beautiful undergrounds I have ever seen. Each with a historical background. Works of amazing architecture and beauty.Only setback, everything is in Russian (though some trains have english announcements).;5;July 24, 2017
Awesome;This was the most mind blowing experience!  I got on a train and got off at every station just to gawk!  Clean and beautiful - if you stay underground only 55 rubels!!!;5;July 24, 2017
Fabulous;This is definitely the most beautiful metro I've ever been! Just make sure to go with a map or to understand a bit of Russian, as there are no signs in English.;5;July 24, 2017
Fast and Efficient;The trains are always packed but they the next one is usually just a couple of minutes away. The Moscow Metro is very cheap, very fast and surprisingly efficient. It sure beats the traffic chaos and delays in the roads above. You buy a token or paper ticket, or book of tickets and descend deeply by escalators to the platforms beneath. The Metro Stations are all wonderfully decorated and you can spend days exploring the statues and paintings found in these stations. Make sure you learn the Russian alphabet (we did in a few weeks) to make sure you get off at the right station.;5;July 23, 2017
Striking Decor!;The Moscow Metro is a must to see and use. Our guide quickly took us to the most beautiful or interesting stations. We did not see one that was not worth time to admire. Soo clean and well cared for.;5;July 23, 2017
Language may be a barrier to its use but the system is easy to use;To show us some of the prettier Metro stations, Scenic river cruises gave us a Metro excursion. Our guide bought our tickets and ushered us to the right platform. We were then escorted to various stations and transferred to different lines in order to see a variety of architectural features in the halls of these stations. Some of the outstanding features were bronze statues of common folk around the arches which led to a train platform; frescoes of happy Ukrainian home life framed with delicately carved thick plaster; precious rhodonite facing bases of arches; frescoes at end walls showing a historical event; different ceiling details all hung with large chandeliers; and escalators that descended deeply. The stations that we were shown were those listed  in guide books as attractions.These stations were very busy, noisy, but clean, and male young adults in the train cars actually gave up their seats for us. Trains on the same line departed ever few minutes. Signs in Russian showed the station stops on the lines; exit options were labelled with names of streets in Russian; platforms on the same level offered trains going in opposite directions; transfers to other lines were within the station so no other ticket was needed; many stations on the lines - so easy to get close to the attraction without using a bus; stations at street level were easy to identify with their large blue M signs. In other words, the Moscow Metro had features common to subway systems in big cities. While it was easy using the Metro system with a guide, going it alone would present some difficulties due to the language barrier. However, we did use the Metro to get to an attraction during our free time. Instead of using the ticket machine (no English option), we bought tickets at the cashier inside the station and used fingers to show the number of tickets wanted and just slid the required money to the cashier. One ticket was very cheap – 50 rubles (under $1.00 US). Using the excellent handheld Metro map, we identified the direction of the train that we needed and headed for that platform. We counted the stops instead of using the station names to know when to get off. We used single line stations so the numerous levels and halls in multi-line stations was not a problem. We did not get lost. I found it interesting that a male voice is used to announce the arrival at stations when the train is going into the city and a female voice is used to announce stations when the train is moving away from the city.  Moscow Metro system was easy to use and while the language barrier seemed to present a problem there were ways to get around it. I felt safe on the trains as many ordinary people use it to get to work, shopping, etc. We had no trouble with being asked for ID papers, people asking for handouts, theft, or unpleasant riders. Groups of security officers in the larger stations patrol the platforms. I would suggest to get familiar with Moscow Metro map before arriving in the city by printing the map off the internet. Be familiar with the lines (all color coded), identify the stations needed and the direction of the train ahead of time so the language barrier at the stations will not seem quite so onerous then.;5;July 23, 2017
Just got better for English speakers;Moscow Metro is no different from metros or subways or tubes anywhere in the world except all of the signage and notices are in Russian Cyrillic writing. If you've seen it you'll know it's impossible to even guess what it might mean. But in between my June and July trips they have replaced most of the signs and Metro maps, even leaflets and have added the English spelling alongside the Russian on stations and in the train carriages. Fantastic, now you can easily get around the Moscow metro.;5;July 22, 2017
Feel local;The Metro can show you a lot of the Russian daily culture, the different stations are as a small museum. The signs are in Russian and English, so is easy to follow up. But you have to move fast and don't stand in the way of the locals, specially in labor hours.-El Metro puede mostrarte mucho de la cultura diario de Rusia, sus diferentes estaciones son como pequeños museos. Los señalamientos estan en Ruso e Ingles, asi que son facil de interpretar. Pero tienes que moverte rapido y no bloquear el camino de la gente, especialmente en horas laborales.;5;July 22, 2017
Wish NY trains were this good;Amazing, the train tour is the end of a long day and on the way back to the train to go back to st Petersburg. We were tired and only toured 3 stations but---The metro is spotless, people are polite and the art in the stations is amazing.;5;July 21, 2017
A free museum;This is a must to travel on the Metro, each station is so different and some are absolutely amaizing;5;July 21, 2017
Definintely not the NYC subway;Our tour guide took us thru several station stops on the subway so we could see the magnificent stations along our trip. They belong in museum. Hard to believe that 7 million people use this system every day. Make a point to visit the subway.;4;July 20, 2017
It is an underground railway system;That more or less says it all.  It is a highly efficient transportation system set apart from many others by the exceptional quality of the station furnishings and decoration.  Apart from the decor it is the usual - swirling crowds and foul air.;4;July 20, 2017
Most beautiful stations you will ever visit;And I mean all of them - some more ornate than others but just wow - you have to keep reminding yourself that these are underground train stations! Cheapest tourist attraction - for the price of one journey you can station hop all over Moscow (as long as you don't 'surface'). It can get a bit squashed at peak travel times- so do your tour mid- morning or afternoon. Also there are no lifts, so not disabled friendly - but my friend who has some walking difficulties managed on the escalators and people would give up their seats when they saw her struggling.;4;July 20, 2017
A must-have experience!;The Metro is one of the prettiest in the world. Save the metro tour and do one on your own if you're on a budget, and remember to get the Troika Card to get around too. It'll save you a lot on money and queues;5;July 20, 2017
A MUST  visit to do in Moscow;A must to do when in Moscow...buy a single ticket for 55 Rb and stop at every station of the circle line (line #5). Avoid the rush hours 8-10 am / 5-7 pm to allow you to take better pictures.;4;July 20, 2017
Metro - Circle Line;The circle line has 12 station. As its name imply, the line is a loop and the train runs round and round. A train arrives every other minute like clockwork. It put my country metro to shame. For a ticket of 110 rubles you get to ride as long as you like so long you do not exit at any station. So take your time and exit at every stop to admire the different theme and design. It is a most interesting excursion best done on a wet day during your visit. Of course you can do other lines as well but the circle line probably has the most beautiful stations.;5;July 20, 2017
Amazing Features;The Metro is easy to navigate with announcements in both Russian and English. Research which stations you want to visit and stop for a few minutes to take it all in. Trains come along every few minutes so no need to feel rushed.;5;July 19, 2017
A unique experience - wished I had more time to explore each station;Each station is a unique work of art. The artist takes great pains to display his/her proud ownership of the what is being depicted in each station. The mind of the artist is beautifully displayed in each station. Travelling with a group tour is not an ideal way to admire each station's artwork - it was a 'rush' from one station to another. If I were to revisit Moscow, I'd do it alone... with more time to explore the beauty of each station's handiwork.;5;July 19, 2017
Lots of Russia's History detailed on its walls;Some lovely decoration and detailed images covering aspects of Russia's political and social past, struggles and peace times. Definitely a must see. Very easy to use, colour coding and matching colours on the platform pavements to follow. Very cheap way to travel also. Be ware of pick pockets.;4;July 19, 2017
Splendour at every level;Famous as it is the Moscow Metro is a complete experience with each station having a different theme and décor - the efficiency of the trains is quite breathtaking and it is so worth taking time to spend some time within the stations - fantastic;5;July 19, 2017
Easy to navigate with some guesswork;Most of the metro stations are written in russian cyrillic alphabet, but with a map you can figure out which line to take (follow the numbers, not the colours!) and which side of the platform you can be on. - the side you should be taking is the one with the name of the station you are headed to (even includes the other lines)Beware the train door closes quite fast and opens for a brief period of time.The only thing is that the entrances of the metro are separate from the exits, so ask around if you cannot find it.55 rubles for one ticket - available from electronic machines or from manned booths. We had some trouble with the 2 pass option as one of the trip was invalid for some reason, so we just used one pass the rest of the time.;4;July 19, 2017
The most beautiful metro that I have ever seen;All the stations of Moscow's metro are unique, most of the stations are beautiful (specially the ones inside the inner circle), but some of them are just master pieces. I have not seen other metro with similar characteristics. The metro represents the grandiosity of the beginning of the communist era, and shows exquisite details and pieces of art. One of the best things to do in Moscow is just to take the metro and go though the stations. I really love it!!!;5;July 19, 2017
Excellent Metro;Visiting Moscow without traveling by metro is like something missing. Moscow has very very beautiful, Maintained and clean metro stations. Good connectivity around the city and fast. Traveling in metro there is very awesome experience one must tried it on their trips to Moscow. And offcource city is also a equally beautiful n awesome.;5;July 19, 2017
A must visit place in Moscow!;A lot has been said about Moscow's Metro stations, but you have to visit at least 5 or more stations to have an idea of the beauty and history that lies beneath Moscow's surface.It's an unforgettable experience to get down to some Metro stations using a never ending electric stairs, it takes more than a minute to get down or up from at least 2 of them, they are very deep!!!Using Metro can be challenging even if you have Google Maps or the Yandex Metro app, because everything is in Russian, but i hope they are going to include english translations as the World Cup is coming next year!Buy a Troika card, top it and use it to travel and experience the Moscow's Metro service and admire the beauty in all Stations near the city center!;5;July 18, 2017
Komsolmoskaya was our favourite!;We are normally ones for architecture but the moscow metro is a must see on any visit to Moscow.  The coffee ring (brown-5) line is the most spectacular. The trains run very regularly so we never spent any time waiting on the platform after we had finished admiring.  This really is a lot better than you imagine.;5;July 18, 2017
Amazing Subway system;OK there are two reasons for riding the Metro. First it is by far the best way to get around Moscow as the car traffic is terrible.  And it is inexpensive--only 55 roubles for any ride.  It takes a bit of work to figure out the system but on the trains there are announcements in English and signage in English too.  But have a good bilingual Metro Map. Secondly, as noted many of the stations are art forms themselves--built in Soviet times. Amazing!  Ride it and explore!!;5;July 17, 2017
Love the decorative metro stations;I especially love Komsomolkaya metro. Simply amazing. Take the line 3 and line 5 to enjoy several beautiful metro stations.;5;July 17, 2017
Ornate beauty;Metro in Moscow is a well spent afternoon doing the ring around city centre. We did 10 of the best and were impressed with the difference in each one.;5;July 16, 2017
Best way of getting round Moscow;The metro is quite simply the best way of getting round Moscow, running efficient services (although not always late at night) with some of the older stations having superb architecture, and even statues.  One or two even have identified selfie points, telling you where to stand for a good view.Knowledge of Cyrillic script helps, and not all direction signs are also in Western (Roman) script.And there's free wifi across most of the network, too!;5;July 16, 2017
A City So Great, the Metro is an Attraction;Could not believe the artistry and care that went into the Moscow metro. Went down into one station stop where the statues along the wall represented the progression of Russian culture and identity. Started out with military men and ended with family men, was quite the statement. Also supposedly good luck to rub the noses of the four bronze dogs, everyone was doing it!;3;July 16, 2017
Moscow metro;How absolutely fantastic this is.  Decorations and history of the metro make it a must to see.  Hard to believe so far underground and a safe haven during ww2.;5;July 16, 2017
fantastic;A place you should not miss in Moscow. You can buy a ticket and go station by station and visit all these wonderful places.It will become full of passengers and then empty in a while.So be patient and also careful!;5;July 16, 2017
Less of a tourist attraction for me than a mode of transport;I live in Moscow so I use the metro system almost everyday here.  I LOVE IT.  It is fast efficient and relatively cheap.  I am not sure what is best to purchase for tourists, but for people who live here, I would recommend a troika card, which you just top up (like an Oyster card in London).  In Moscow you don't tap in and out, just in.  The system is pretty straight forward but I also recommend you get a Russian/English Metro map so you can read the signs in the Metro as they are not in English characters.  Finally they are absolutely beautiful and clean.;4;July 16, 2017
A Rainy Day Activity;I was impressed by the stations. Again I had a private guide who helped me navigate the system and we stopped at the most beautiful stations decorated with sculptures and statues.The metro carts themselves were very clean and ran on time. I did not see signs in English so I think it might be hard to navigate it alone if you do not read the Russian alphabet.;4;July 15, 2017
Worth spending some time.;The Moscow metro is simply a wonderful experience. My wife and I spent quite a bit of time just travelling the Metro and checking out the wonderful underground stations. It is surprisingly interesting. Some fabulous artwork and sculptures and so clean and well maintained. Don't miss it. Be sure to buy the bulk ticket , about twenty entries, much cheaper.;5;July 15, 2017
Amazing stations;Do a Google search and read about the 10 best stations to visit. Mark them down on a metro map. Then buy a metro ticket for less than $1 per person and travel from one to the other. Avoid the rush hour. It takes around an hour and a half to do them all, but well worth it, especially if you have made a few notes about each station. No need to pay for a guide, but you will need to decypher the Russian station names!;5;July 15, 2017
Convenient;Cheap, nice decorative large stations but entrances are old and some poor infrastructure. Challenge to find the right platform as there are no English signs. Some staff are helpful by using sign language to direct you to right platform.;3;July 14, 2017
A very interesting attraction;I recommend you do the most beautiful stations with a guide or with some reading about it before you go. The stations that I have visited are really nice and tells you a lot about the soviet union history.;5;July 14, 2017
Tired but beautiful and offering excelent service;The train carriages are really old. But the system works really great! Quick, fast and reasonably cheap. And first of all - really beautiful. There are lots of stations that you should see. And each of them is unique and stunning.;5;July 14, 2017
Great Construction;We were led by our river cruise leaders to enter the metro stations, to view the internal decorations, to watch the actual traffic flow, to try short rides in different lines and to admire the great public transportation system in Moscow now and in the past.;5;July 14, 2017
Wow and wow again;We went in the evening and it's very worthwhile to go and see.It's like a palace and it's clean and it was not to busy.We travelled 2 stops to see different stations and it was very impressive indeed.I went with a tour group so we had ppl with us.;5;July 13, 2017
Cheaper to explore alone;The metro is really easy to use. At the stations there are machines were you can buy a credit card sized ticket valid for two trips. A single trip is about 55 Rubbles. Some of the stations are beautifully designed and constructed. Some have mosaics others statues or glass and chandeliers. It is really worth taking a few hours to tour these stations. If the weather is bad then it's a good activity to under take. You can ride as many lines and as many trips between stations as you like for only 55 Rubbles. This is much cheaper then a tour.;4;July 13, 2017
Great for a rainy day;We jumped on the metro and found our way around relatively easily - hotel and guide book highlighted best stations to visit. Some are jaw dropping! Really great way to spend a couple of hours and costs about a quid max for a ticket you can use all day. Try to avoid following any of the organised tours though - they hog all the sights taking selfies for ages - too many to a group. Easy to do metro solo.;5;July 13, 2017
Highlight of our stay in moscow;Our guide,Galia, took us to the main metro stations and explained the theme of each, and the back ground.Most charming were the statues that are touched for good luck in different fields.Galia managed to get all for of our group off and on the metro cars safely and considerately accompanied us to our desired destination for the last stop.;5;July 13, 2017
Beautiful;We were amazed by the beauty, efficiency and cleanliness  of this public transportation system.  Off peak hours trains come every 3 minutes.  The subway is eminently affordable.;5;July 13, 2017
The best metro in the world!!;Moscow metro is one of the oldest metro in the world. It is one of the most beautiful too. Every station depicts an event which is associated with its name and it decorated according to that event. Some stations are named after an famous activist, scientist or writer, like e.g. Mendeleev' station. Decorated with molecules and his table of chemical elements. The Moscow metro is also one of the most efficient in the world. It is never late, average wait time is 1 min.;5;July 13, 2017
Interesting maze;Very cool, but often confusing, as far as metro's go. Super crowded at times, but practical for getting around. A single pass ticket is 55 RUB. I liked it a bit extra because of having read the Metro books by Glukhovsky.;4;July 13, 2017
Great art in some Metro stations;Yes great art and worth a tour. Metro a bit confusing due to lack of signs in English.All very clean and regular commuters dont seem to resent tourists.;4;July 13, 2017
Great subway if you are not handicapped;After all the reviews, we had to visit several stations to see the decorations... were not disappointed and we also found all stations very clean.  Trains also very efficient.  But I would not recommend to anyone who cannot walk a lot because I neverNoticed handicap accessibility.  And just too many steps .;4;July 12, 2017
More than stations they are like museums;Majority, if not all of Moscow's metro stations are awesome, you would be amazed how they were built 30 or more meters below the ground and with some date back to 1945. There are marbled pillars, arches, chandeliers, statues, glass works and intricate ceilings. Metro-hopping in Moscow is a worthwhile experience any tourist here should not miss.;5;July 12, 2017
Lots of beautiful metrostations;The well kept clean and beautifully decorated stations are the Pride of Moscow. When you see them you understand why. So take some time in the underground and enjoy.;4;July 12, 2017
A must see on a visit to Moscow;Absolutely amazing.  The marble walls, bronze statues, the chandeliers mosaics.paintings, ceilings and above all the cleanliness everywhere and no litter  Almost 250 stations at a cost of 55 R a day to  travel anywhere  The earlier stations are the most spectacular.  Wow!;5;July 12, 2017
Is this a train stop or a museum?;Like most big cities, one must become acquainted with the local metro / underground rail system - otherwise, were you ever really there? It really is the only way to get around. Do yourself a favour, don't be intimidated and just jump on a train, you won't regret it. Not only will the super efficient metro get you from A to B quickly, it's like going to a different museum with each stop. It is seriously amazing. Fantastic architecture and artwork at every turn. Experience it or yourself.;4;July 12, 2017
Amazing;Took a guided tour of the Metro.  Didn't even know it existed before the visit and it was truly an amazing experience.  Couldn't believe the history and rare beauty of the mosaics, bronze statues and various marbles.  If you have visited and used the metro, I would highly recommend the experience.;4;July 11, 2017
Gorgeous, Efficient, and so Cheap;The cost of the metro is so cheap, and the stations are so beautiful, I'd recommend going in even if you aren't going to any particular place. The metro will also get you just about anywhere you are trying to go. Navigate carefully, there is not much english, but some of the stations are labelled in two languages. This is a clean, safe and excellent system.;5;July 11, 2017
Super;The best thing about Moscow! Really!! Very convenient. Not crowded. Easy to board. And most importantly beautiful.All are underground. We were surprised to see the depth to which the escalator reached. It was as if we'll reach the centre of earth. The platforms were not visible from the top of the escalators.The platforms are constructed beautifully with carved pillars and ceilings.;5;July 11, 2017
This is not museum underground of Moscow;Moscow Metro is not only convenient way for the moving from one plase on this huge megapols to another one. But Moscow Metro is also kind of undeground museum.;4;July 11, 2017
Amazing architecture;Amazing architecture, especially at the center! Stations like Komsomolskaya, Belorusskya, Mayakovskaya.;5;July 11, 2017
Must see;Most beautiful metro system of the whole world... please visit it and get amazed ... now even with live classical music;5;July 11, 2017
One of three musy see places in Moscow;Great architecture design, titanic efforts of all soviet nation at mid of 20 century. Brautiful as palaces,annormous trchnical project.;5;July 11, 2017
Beautiful!!!;Moscow metro system is in one word: BEAUTIFUL.Every station on the centre ring is different  and worth a visit. Take your time even when it is busy (like always) and enjoy the surrounding.;5;July 11, 2017
Like sculptures  . It is like the museum.;Always go to the oldest stations to enjoy beautiful interior and sculptures. Art , beauty and history meet up;5;July 10, 2017
Beautiful;The metro in Moscow is the most beautiful and well run metro I've ever seen. It cost us approx 55 cents and you could ride it anywhere and connect 10 times if you want. The signage takes getting used to but doable even not knowing the language. The best thing about it is the museum quality of the metro. Every station is different with different designs. Clean too! And the trains come every two minutes. Never a long wait. Definetly a must see!!!;5;July 10, 2017
Subways are so clean;Using this subway system is like going through another art museum. Each subway station depicts an example of soviet superiority, in battle, in industry in life. A not to be missed experience.;5;July 10, 2017
Brilliant service and art to boot!;Used the Metro on a guided tour in order to see the best stations for their art, but also to avoid the traffic jams in Moscow at present because of the road works pre the 2018 Football World Cup. Impressed by the frequency of trains. Glad we had a guide with us because translating the Cyrillic alphabet is a challenge but impressed that each carriage had a rout indicator showing which station was next. gather staff are being trained to help out with travellers from around the world next year.;4;July 10, 2017
Great Subway, becareful or you can get lost;The metro is beautiful and goes to all parts of the city. But even for Russian speakers (my wife) the metro can be confusing, study the app that they provide , plus the metro provides free WI-FI. The people will help when asked for directions,;4;July 10, 2017
A touristy ride;We did a site seeing tour of the Russian metro stations. The stations were well maintained and orderly. Entry and exit procedures are world class. The were conducted to a few stations. Their platforms were artistic and each was had a different type of architecture. They are indeed worth a visit. Considering that this design was conceptualised and executed in the 1950s, it is indeed a marvel.;5;July 10, 2017
Puts other metros to shame;The Moscow metro was beautiful, putting all other underground metro systems to shame.  Whilst London's underground rivals Moscow's in size, it's stations are ugly and it is very expensive. Moscow has art work and chandeliers everywhere and is very clean - and is also cheap, like a public transport system should be. So much cleaner and safer than NYC's or LA's undergrounds.  If they could just instal aircon, as in Singapore's MRT, it would be perfect!;4;July 9, 2017
Very interesting and efficient;First off, the metro can be overwhelming to first timers.  Although the women at the ticket booths speak English and some of the trains have announcements in English, all the written directions are in Russian.  One thing to keep in mind is that each track is for 1 route only.  In other words you do not have different trains using the same track as you do for BART (San Francisco).  As a result, if you miss a train, the next one (going in the same direction) is no more than a 5 minute wait.  Again, the hard part is navigating the Russian directions to get to the correct track.  Cost was 110 rubles for round trip.  Cost is not distance based.  55 rubles allows you to ride the metro all day long if you want (so long as you don't exit).  Some metro stops are furnished with statues and I believe there are tours established for exploring the more interesting locations.;4;July 9, 2017
Very functional.;The frequence is high, so you don't have to wait and there is no rush - amazing! Stations are clean and you can feel yourself safe everywhere.;5;July 9, 2017
Kievskaya, my favourite station;I had visited only 5 stations of Moscow metro, the most beautiful one for me is "Kievskaya" station. I can feel the atmosphere of Soviet period along with the close relationship between ukrainian and russian via the art on the wall. Really love this place.;5;July 9, 2017
Always Stunning;If you've been in any other metro in the world, go to Moscow and ride this one. Stop at several stations and get out and look in the center area. You will be amazed if you only ride US subways. Even the escalator ride is worth the price of admission. An industrial wonder of the world.;5;July 9, 2017
Amazing;Metro is just amazing. Every 3 minutes a train is departing. Download the metro app provided but Yandex (offline map), it is a great help planning your travel. Metro is clean, fast, cheap.;5;July 9, 2017
Worth a visit;We went to the. Metro both for transportation and just to see it. Moscow traffic  is horrific and the Metro easy - so try it!  Also each station is a different piece of art.;5;July 9, 2017
Impossible to make sense on your own;We're veterans of metro rides all over the worlf so We tried to negotiate it ourselves but if you don't speak and read Russian it's impossible. All the signs are in Russian and in Cyrillic alphabet. If you need to switch lines its a mess. Luckily we were helped by a very nice lady who spoke English to find our way to the Tertyakov gallery exit because otherwise we would have surely gotten lost. While some of the stations do appear to be nice its pretty much a gamble to tackle the ride on your own so if you want to do a metro tour I would strongly suggest to take a guided tour.;3;July 8, 2017
Flawlessly efficient;Having lived in London most of my life and being accustomed to overpriced, inefficient public transport the Moscow Metro was a true beacon showing the way public transit should be run.With the exception of late night services, one train pulls out of the station the second follows quite literally in an instant, not 3,4, 5+ minutes later like in most other cities.The stations themselves are truly beautiful, and ticket prices are essentially free when compared to other European capitals.Two very minor issues: be warned that the escalators are very, very long and interchanges between stations are often lengthy also. You'll need to add an extra 10 minutes to your journey plan to account for this.The number of police and soldiers marching around in Soviet-style uniform and in much larger groups than seems necessary could be off-putting to a liberally-minded traveler. However these were trivial issues and the Moscow metro remains top of my list for the most beautiful, efficient and affordable public transit system I have ever encountered.;5;July 8, 2017
Fast, efficient, and beautiful in places;An underground is not usually a great attraction. This one is fast, reliable, and a train comes every two minutes. Fantastic to get around. But some of the stations, especially the ones along the ring line, are actually quite beautiful, with artwork and great architecture. Why not take a photography tour of the nicest Moscow Metro stations? It does make fantastic images. For best results, go late at night or early in the morning, otherwise there will be thousands of people in your way.;5;July 8, 2017
A underground museum!;Stop by all Moscow metro stations to see the underground beauty in this huge city!Each station is a master piece.;5;July 7, 2017
Unbelievable!!;The metro stations are works of art, nothing at home compares to the decor the mosaic vaulted ceilings, the marble and sculptures and very clean. The subway is fast and efficient and fairly easy to use, but you need to pay close attention to where you want to get on and off as everything is in Russian with no English translation.;5;July 7, 2017
Stay a while and relax;The understand station is usually filled with people alway going there to catch a train.However the well designed and well lit station offers a place to sit and relax before moving on to our destination.I always like to click a few pictures every time I have time to do so.;5;July 7, 2017
Nobody speaks English;The Metro is efficient, but really just a metro like you will find in any huge city. There is a lot of hype surrounding the beauty of the stations and some of the stations are pretty. But if you are not traveling then I would skip it.If you are traveling then bear in mind that nobody speaks English. Buying tickets is simple and cheap (55 rubles a person) and the ticket machines are easy to use even if you do not speak Russian. Just memorize the names of the stations and study the maps so you don't get lost.;3;July 7, 2017
Wow!;Not only is this a very efficient way of getting around, but you get to see these beautiful metro stations while you're getting around. We did get a little turned around in the connected stations, but the announcements were also in English, so we had no problems getting on and off when we needed to.;5;July 7, 2017
Takes some getting used to but very efficient and fast;A little intimidating the first time in buying tickets from the machines, making transfers,  and trying to understand the Russian only signage. After a little experience you can get around easily and quickly as there are mere minutes between trains. Best bet is to download an English/Russian notated Metro map, that way you can easily locate what you are looking for either way. Some of the newer cars have easier readouts for tourists for the electronic route maps over the doors, but even the old cars have working electronic station maps that indicate where you are going. True the art in some of the stations is really great and there are tours that go through the most appealing stations, but really the Metro is about getting from A to B and it is the best way to do so cheaply given the Moscow traffic. Tip to figure you are getting the right train is to look at the wall across from the platform, beyond where the trains are in front of you. The direction the trains are going and the stops they are making are stenciled on the wall much more understandable than most of the other confusing signs. Some of the steep and long escalators that you take to go deep down to board the trains can be dizzying to some people, so be aware. If making transfers are intimidating note that often a 10-15 min. walk can get you to an alternate metro station that is on the direct line to your destination. One ticket and you can ride as long as you want if you don't exit so enjoy the ride.;4;July 6, 2017
The most beautiful in the World;What to add? The Moscow state metropolitan is not just a kind of public transport. It is a piece of art. It is even possible to book a guided tour under the ground to learn more about this unique metro.;5;July 6, 2017
YOU HAVE TO FEEL IT TO BELIEVE IT IS TRUE;All metro stations are one better and beautiful than the other one!  It is hard to believe such magnificience underground.  Sculptures, mosaics, paintings, chandelliers, bronzes, marbles, crystal and 5 million people using this public service!  The most polished and clean place you can ever imagine!  You will not find even a little paper or crumb in the floor nor in the rails!  Astohishing!;5;July 6, 2017
WOW;Moscow Metro is an attraction for me to repeat visit to russia on its own. each station has its unique feeling. very beautiful sculptures. A real must see in the heart of russian capital and very deep underworld feeling.;5;July 6, 2017
Quite OK;No English signboard at all. Transfer is also not easy if it is first time but het used to it. Beautiful interior, that's for sure.;4;July 6, 2017
History Depicted Beautifully;We visited six metro stations as we were traveling between points. They were all very different styles, but equally phenomenal places. I can not imagine commuting through these buildings  every day. What we did not know that Russian history is depicted on the ceilings and side panels in murals and even some mosaics. The first one was built in 1935 and one is even 275 feet below the ground, sometimes used as bunkers. Unless you can read cryillac, using this cheap means of transport is difficult, at best.;5;July 5, 2017
In no time;Moscow metro is most amazing. As long as u hav a map getting from point A to point B is quite easy. Clean, well maintained catering for large crowds. Should one have a problem, quite easy to get by , by asking young students who have a good command of the English language. It's quite safe as I used it at about 22h00 and reach my destination hassle free.;4;July 5, 2017
An Efficient, Inexpensive way to Get Shoved Around Moscow;The Moscow Metro is similar to some of the older Subways we have here in the states; it's cheap, noisy, and fast. The real attraction for travelers is the architecture of some of the Metro stations, which oftentimes have ornate architecture or colorful murals. You can tell Moscovites take their trains seriously!My biggest complaint about the metro is that it can be hard to hear the stops and instructions over the speaker (because the trains are so loud) and that local Moscovites can be pushy and indifferent to those of us who are pausing to take a second to familiarize ourselves with our surroundings. I know this is mostly a cultural thing, and is not too uncommon on commuter rails in metropolitan areas, but it still made the experience more stressful than it needed to be.;3;July 5, 2017
Wow!;As Americans, we don't use trains in most of the US for transit. However, in Moscow, trains are just for transporting you from place to place. They are a sense of pride and art for Muscovites. The Metro stations, especially those on the original Brown line are an absolute must see. These places are mini museums and are truly a thing of beauty. Once you get used to navigating the system, make a point to ride the Brown line all the way around, stopping at each station to see the beautiful workmanship.;5;July 5, 2017
This is the way to move;Traffic in Moscow is terrible, the worst I've seen in my life, except on weekends. Therefore, if you want to cut your losses and use your time in what you want, just use the metro. Besides, you will have fun, because they are beautiful inside.;5;July 5, 2017
Stunning;A fabulous and cheap way to get around. Much quicker than taxis and the metro stations are amazing. Marbles, mosaics and sculptures, simply stunning. Have a camera with you when using the metro;5;July 5, 2017
A Must-See in Moscow.;There's no other metro like it in the world.  Travel from station to station simply to admire the different art from floor to ceiling in each: mosaics in one, copper statues in another, fresco paintings in another, crystal chandeliers in yet another, and all with marble floors.;5;July 4, 2017
Cheap and efficient;Great system. Fairly easy to navigate as a foreigner but plenty of people to help if unsure.  Staff at I information counters are a great resource and able to help out with routing and easy directions. Buy a card for RUB50 and top up. Each time you enter is RUB35 and can change lines as often as you like.Also did a 3hr Intrepid Urban Adventure of the metro which was very informative and interesting. Steep escalators are not for the feint hearted!!! Oh and if you need to use the loo....only at top, none in the underground so go before you leave!;5;July 4, 2017
Underground castles;The metro is awesome, I'm used to travelling by Delhi Metro but I must say, the awe of Moscow Metro is still in my mind. These are mansions for the common man, so beautiful architecture, and the self service kiosks helped me as I wasn't familiar with the Russian language. The people were very polite.;5;July 4, 2017
Spectacular!;I recommend using the metro in Moscow. It is a fabulous way to get around. Much quicker than taxis and the metro stations are amazing. Marbles, mosaics and sculptures, as good as many museums. Enjoy the trip and have your camera in hand. Children under 7 travel free, just walk up to the booth and they let the kids go ahead. Be quick getting on, as the train doors are unforgiving. Be careful you don't get stuck half on/half off the train. It's a little to navigate which direction your are catching. But on the train you can tell using the light up maps and the voice overs are female if heading out of town And male if heading into town!;5;July 3, 2017
fast and punctual;Compared with New York subway, Moscow's metro is really amazing. The speed is fast and everything runs according to schedule.;5;July 3, 2017
Cleanest and most efficient subway I've seen;The Moscow Metro is very clean from the minute you walk in till you walk out at the destination.  The stations are big and easy to use.  Some people with us from New York were amazed at no garbage even on the tracks.   No smells.  Trains run very frequently and the routes are laid out well.  Cost is very low.   A lot of cities could take lessons from this system.;5;July 3, 2017
Fascinating;Moscow metro is fascinating with history and themes in every different station. I suggest to find the stories or take a tour before you visit the stations because there is more than what you see in the metro;5;July 3, 2017
Amazing;The stations are better than some hotels, amazing.They are gradually updating the old trains which is nice.Very busy, but as they are so spacious it is not really a problem and trains run very frequently.;5;July 2, 2017
A Museum or a MetroStation?;When I read that MoscowMetro Stations are Heritage Buildings, I could never imagine how grand they are or how many qualify for the tag. Every Station has the appearance of an opulent palace, with murals, Chandeliers, relief works and motives on walls and pillars. Many Heritage Stations like Komsomolskaya and Novoslobodskaya have to be seen to believe.;5;July 2, 2017
Must see, activity for bad weather :-);Moscow metro build as palace for working people is interesting museum it self. Choose up to 10 best looking stations from travel guide or google and go to explore. Plan for rainy day or evening after your trip. Even all is written in Cyrillic it is easy principle as in any other city.;5;July 2, 2017
Getting Around by Moscow Metro;The Moscow Metro is both a tourist attraction and a fast and efficient way to get around in the city. Like many big cities in the world, the roads in the Moscow city are very congested, especially during peak hours. During my recent visit to Moscow (June 2017), I saw construction sites and road works everywhere. A 20 minutes' drive can take up to more than one hour. It is much more reliable to get around using the Metro. Although there are English inside the Metro trains, the metro station names on the platform walls are in Russian. It is helpful to have a metro map with station names in Russian and English. The announcements inside the Metro trains are in Russian and English. If you only want to see the architecture and the beautiful art works in the Metro stations, do that in off peak hours, avoid the crowd.;4;July 1, 2017
A Journey through beautiful surroundings;To get around Moscow the metro is a must. However many of the station's are beautiful with fabulous décor.;5;July 1, 2017
Cheap, efficient, clean and a tourist attraction in itself;A plastic card (known as a Troika card) can be bought for 50 roubles at any station and loaded and topped up later with any number of trips costing 35 roubles each; if you are travelling together you can use the same card, just tap it twice as you go through the barrier.  When we first entered at Park Kultury the staff were very helpful and worked out how many journeys and how many cards our party needed to buy, however our friends entering at University station had the opposite experience.  Station names and instructions on using the ticket machines are also in English, but the names of the station exits are only in Cyrillic script.  The metro is cheap, frequent and very efficient, and of course it is a tourist attraction in itself - especially the platforms on the inner circle (line 5).  It can easily be used to visit many attractionsd which are near stations but rather far to walk, e.g. Novodevichiy Convent, Kolomenskoe, Sparrow Hills, VDNKh...;5;July 1, 2017
Easy to use;Moscow metro is really easy to use even for foreigners, no way to get lost or confused in it, it goes everywhere in the city, the only difficulty I have found was to understand how the ticketing system works, but once you get used to it it's fine, I presonally fought a bit with the selling machines and prefer the cash desk to buy them, the stations are really big and some are also very beautiful to see.;5;July 1, 2017
Great underground museum;It is much more comfortable if you learn to read Cyrillic latter, which I learned while stay in Russia. We purchased a ticket to the metro and  start at beloruskai Metro station and then took other lines to the most famous station, get down and continue to the other one. Took us about 3 hours. Very impressive tour, no need for any guide.;5;July 1, 2017
Beautiful, Functional and Safe;How can be a metro be as functional as this? and be also beautiful and historical and also warm and safe? I liked it A lot;5;July 1, 2017
Step back in time ....;I went on a tour of the Metro and  used it extensively, once you get the hang of it it is not so difficult and the  Muscovites are very helpful and kind.   The tour of the Metro is worthwhile, each historic station is totally different and impressive;5;July 1, 2017
Different  than other countries;Metro stations dexorations are really nice but we didin't use metro in Moscow too much. You can walk everywhere;4;June 30, 2017
Visit to Moscow;Very impressive and a must see when you are in Moscow. Each station is unique and stunning. I think the London tube needs a revamp after seeing the Metro in Moscow. We did the Metro tour which covers the main stations, but we also saw others that were just as beautiful on our travels.;5;June 30, 2017
Beautiful, well managed, English signage needed!!;If you want to admire its beauty and the well managed public transport hub -here is your choice.I like the beautiful stations and how it connects the city but struggled with no English signage at all, was shock and lost on the first trip. It took me 2 days to get used to Cyrillic and was able to notice where to go. Sometime bus is easier as less crowd, you can track with google map, see English signage and also seeing the town view. Also sometime bus stop is closer to your attractions than metro station.;4;June 30, 2017
complicated!;Moscow metro, needed map or a app on the phone!the metro can be complicated! this place smelt the oil and wet!most of the station are very beautiful!;5;June 29, 2017
Amazing architecture in the stations. Lots of trains. one right after the other.;The stations each have their own architectural theme. Some are beautiful. Not that you have to be in one long. Trains timed very close together. Outshines New York, London or Paris.Wonder how many thousands of slave laborers died during construction?;5;June 29, 2017
Beautiful underground stations;This is uncomparable to other countries underground stations. Enjoy for ex. Mayakovskaya, Arbatskaya or Kyjevskaya stations. You find other beautiful as well.;5;June 29, 2017
Very convenient and easy to use!;I was absolutely amazed on the detailed design of all the train stations in Moscow. And, they are all clean compared NY's train stations. I couldn't believe it. Service is amazing, trains come every 2 minutes or less. And navigating where you want to go is super simple, every color line has two train lines. One uptown, and one downtown line. It's that simple! There aren't different number trains for one color line. I love the trains here!;5;June 29, 2017
beautifull but confusing;althoug I'm agree that metro of moscow is so much beautifull as it's architectural & beautifull chandelier & sculpture,but as sadness there is no sign in english and no-one could help you.but I give some guide to you that don't cry like me:)))first in every station(not importat which) you only find it's name in map and the color of it,then your destination color,if they are the same you are lucky,otherwise find by going to your destation which cross is exist,at that station you come out and follow the sign for second line and the most important things is here,that you choose wich train left or right??there is som sing that tell you this line cross with wich line,if it's one cross you are lucky and find your train,otherwise also they wrote the name of cross station,I hope I could tell truth.of course you should learn alphabet of russia b'coz they don't write their name in english:)));3;June 29, 2017
Underground beauty;For me the most beautiful metro in the world. Easy to orient your self and very quick transfer for one part of Moscow to another. Of course very crowdy on rush hours. Need to change trains for a more moderen ones. A little dirty and dark. Neverthenless I like it.;5;June 29, 2017
Underground magnificence.;We toured Moscow for 7 days this June with our teen daughters. Since my husband was born and raised here we had him as our personal guide. The one thing he insisted we see is the Moscow Metro as there is no other system like it anywhere. The unique stations have different art themes depicting various sectors of soviet society. In addition to the beautiful art and architecture the metro system is clean, pleasant and safe.  No trip to Moscow would be complete without viewing these amazing stations.;4;June 28, 2017
Take the Metro when visiting Moscow;There are 2 reasons why you must take the metro when visiting Moscow:1 It is the most beautiful in the world, a set of living art galleries2 It is cheap, fast and much more efficient than ground transport in the busy city;5;June 28, 2017
Well maintained;One of the most beautiful underground stations i have been to especially the one in central moscow. Economical and comfortable to travel in length around Moscow.;5;June 28, 2017
Tourist stop;These are the most beautiful subways I have ever seen.  We didn't take a tour and I think we should have to know the history but the visual alone is a must see.;5;June 27, 2017
Must See!;A must-see! Have not seen any other metro station as beautiful as this. Just admire the architecture even if you are not taking the trains.;5;June 27, 2017
Metro trio;Beautiful art nouveau stations.Each one different, stained glass and gilt.Not too crowded so we were able to admire the artwork.;5;June 26, 2017
Worth a day in the Metro;We paid 55p to look around the stations, truly unbelievable fantastic if you check on the net you will see the recommended views.;5;June 25, 2017
The most beautiful Metro in the world;I would strongly suggested everyone who goes to Moscow to take at least once this city's metro, try to locate the famous 11 station.  We stayed in Moscow for only 2 full days, n yet squeezed some time to get into Ploshchad Revolyutsii Metro Station which is closed to the Kremlin area.  We took many metro rides during our two days, and most of them were old but authentic.  But the Ploshchad Revolyutsii Metro Station gave us a really big suprises.  It has many statutes there and the marbles along all the corridows and ceiling are just amazing. We thought we went into an art museum !;5;June 25, 2017
Sensational train system;What a brilliant underground train system. For four Australians who don't speak Russian we were able to navigate the train system with precision. The efficiency of the trains, the consistency and the architecture of this underground system is nothing short of spectacular.;5;June 24, 2017
Excellent transportation ...;You can get anywhere on the metro! Navigating Moscow has never been easier. The roads are congested, but the metro is easy to get around. Look for the policemen if you need directions. They are quite helpful.;5;June 24, 2017
Stunning;Unlike London where everyone is keen to move along fast, you simply must stop at every station and take in the beautiful architecture of the Moscow Metro. It is definitely worth the visit.;4;June 24, 2017
Amazing;On the Lenin line (brown) metro..... advise you to take the time to do every stop on the brown line as you have amazing architecture in each some just wow others mouth droppingly OMG!!! Get off at each stop to really get a feel for these sights as the trains come very regularly.;4;June 23, 2017
Worth the Tour;We took a subway tour with Free Russia Tours. It was worthwhile.  The tour added contact to the beautiful decor.;5;June 23, 2017
Is it a subway or a museum?;Forget about trashy New York Subway or sweaty and hot London's tube. This is absolutely gorgeous place! Every station has a different character and it can easily take hours to explore it. I personally love Komsomolskaya station. Take some time to just tour around and get off at random station. You won't regret it.;5;June 22, 2017
Underground Wonderland;Went on a guided tour of Moscow which took us to 3 stations.....awesome underground.  We were so impressed we took the metro to the circle line and got off at every stop.  Each station a masterpiece of beauty, all different.  The lighting was amazing from chandeliers to Art Deco and of the thousands of lamps, not one blown bulb!  Moscow was fabulous but the metro was the highlight. Under £1 a journey too.;5;June 22, 2017
Metro Stations are the best!!!;I don't speak Russian so it was a little difficult to go around the metro but I did it. It's worth it to see it. They are a masterpiece each of them.;5;June 21, 2017
Beautiful!;A really fantastic subway! Beautiful, cheap & fast. Circle line is great for "station hopping", a train comes along every 2-3 minutes. Just long enough to walk the station, admire the art & decor and then jump on the next train to the next station!;5;June 21, 2017
Amazing stations;The architecture and lavishness of the more historical stations is unique worldwide. Definitely worth a visit!;5;June 21, 2017
breath taking tour;Each station is a state of the art station by itself: the architecture,the paintings,the decoration,the history.... Most striking detail:the cleanliness of the all the stations,eventhough visited by millions of people every day !! AMAZING;5;June 21, 2017
Good service;Good service but at ticket counter and even at assistance there it is very difficult to find English speaking staff. Other wise service wise good and day / season ticket economical.;4;June 21, 2017
Moscow metro;Amazing metro system Each one is a work of art but it was our guide from Moscow private tours,Nat, that brought each station to life. She knew every detail of every mosaic archway and stained glass to be able to really get the feels no of the thought behind making the metros a place to visit If you don't have a guide get a guide book Great place to see on a rainy day too;5;June 21, 2017
Amazingly efficient!!;It lives up to it's great reputation as the most beautiful metro system in the world! And contrary to popular belief, you are allowed to take pictures!! Even late at night I don't think we ever waited more than 3 mins for a train. Security checks when entering the metro are fast, efficient and appreciated.;5;June 19, 2017
Beautiful, cheap and reliable;What a beautiful metro-system. Decorated stations, you pay almost nothing for the tickets and there are trains almost every minute. Wish it was like this at home.;5;June 19, 2017
worth a visit when in Moscow;wow!  Some of the artwork on the train carriages and in the metro stations will make you forget that you're not in a museum but in an underground metro station instead - from the elaborate ceilings to the chandeliers and the mosiac masterpieces on the walls of the various stations...  take note London Underground :);5;June 19, 2017
Evening excursion;Only pay once for the metro ticket and get to stop at all and any of the stations to see the architecture. Each station is different with its own character. We took the circle line and the blue line with a guide and stopped at the most ornate stations. This can sure be done on your own and would be best to research ahead which stations have the best sights.;5;June 19, 2017
A MUST SEE WITH A TOUR GUIDE;I was surprised that this on our tour itinary. after the first station that we viewed I then understood.   Wow  a must see.;5;June 18, 2017
Must see when in Moscow;This is a beautiful underground rail platform with lots of history. Not to be missed when visiting Moscow.;5;June 18, 2017
Exquisite metro stations;Moscow has numerous uniquely built metro stations. All built in ancient times,each one is more beautiful than the other. Clean, well lit, good signages.  Very exquisite carvings and the beautiful paintings on the walls, roof add to the ambience. Each escalator has 450 steps and goes almost 200 meters down.;5;June 18, 2017
Subway Stations that have  become a must experience Tourist Atraction;before you leave MOscow you should do a  Station tour. it will take you 1-2 hours and It will only cost you 50+ rubles!. that's right, unlike the subway systems in Tokyo and Seoul wherein your fare is based on what station you exit, in the Moscow metro you pay one time and it does not matter where you get off.i have no words to describe the beauty of these stations. they may not be the most modern in the world but they are the most unique. It's like being transported back to the 30's and 40's. you will enjoy riding the Metro everyday. Just be careful not to get in the way of rushing commutersthe other amazing experience is the escalator rides from the platform to/from the exit gates. it was VERY steep and took 3-4 minutes! the longest was at Park Pobedy stations which is 84m undergroundmy only complaint is the lighting at the platforms. it made taking good pictures tough.;5;June 16, 2017
Vorobyovy Gory celebrate football event;Vorobyovy Gory metro station is very special - not only in construction, you won't find many metro stations located on a bridge and under a motorway.In recent years it serves as an exhibition hall. I've seen most unexpected items - from collection china to stuffed animals from Charles Darwin museum.These days they feature football teams memorablia from all over the world. The exhibition would be there until the end of the Federations' Cup, I guess.;4;June 16, 2017
*** NO SIGNS OF GRAFFITI HERE ***;I thought I was in a museum when I first walked into the Moscow Metro. Every stop was beautiful. The subways themselves were average but each metro station was unreal. Even if you don't plan to take the Metro, at least walked into one for a peep.;4;June 16, 2017
I would love to make a grand tour of classic stations;There cannot be a better Metro system in the world, given its age, its art, and its convenience.  Though I have only been traveling the Moscow Metro to get to various places, I become enthralled with almost every station, especially the more classic ones (the lower the number of the line, the older it is).  The trains run so often that it is reasonable to take a break in a station to walk around and see the artwork, then catch the next train.  Best, however, to avoid rush hour; even mid-weekday can be quite busy; weekends are best.    As for getting you where you want to go conveniently, I can only rave about how wonderful the system is.  This visit I got a Troika card, which you touch at the entry gate and go -- currently for 35 rubles, if within the classic system; changes to other transport such as tram or bus can bring you up to 55 rubles, which allows travel for up to 90 minutes.  Of course these specifics can change, but it's a great deal no matter what.     It helps to read a little cyrillic, but there are now English-language translations in stations and on the train, and basic station-arrival announcements in English (with more detail in Russian).  The Metro system map is easy to read, and in general, the stations are well labeled for transfers, with both line numbers and color codes.  A couple times I went in the wrong direction (only because I went quickly, taking the 50/50 chance), it was so easy just to get off at the next station and change tracks.  With 2-3-minute recurrences on the main lines, you never wait long--not long enough to enjoy the art and architecture!;5;June 16, 2017
Favourite mean of getting around Moscow;If you avoid rush hours (which should not be too difficult for a tourist) it is a great way to get around the city and admire excellent pieces of art scattered all over the stations.;5;June 16, 2017
Amazing metro station. Perhaps the best that I've ever visited so far!;While in Moscow, we travelled using metro that made us visit almost all station there. each of them has great and different architecture. Very admirable!;5;June 16, 2017
The Most Beautiful Metro in The World;We took a Metro Tour to discover the most beautiful metros (in the center) and they were all different and amazing.They are very well organized and are clean.Most of the metros are very deep and I also suggest a stop at Park Pobedy, to take the longest escalator you will ever see.Most of the signs are in Cyrillic but the line number directions (with their colour) are written on the floor. Having Internet on your phone is a must. The best app we found was Yandex Metro, that also worked in St-Petersburg.;5;June 15, 2017
An art gallery and an ode to an era gone by;Moscow metro is everything that metro stations are not associated with. Mosaic work, fabulous bronze statues including a guard dog whose nose is rubbed by passersby for luck, the sculptures and paintings tell stories of the great wars, the revolution, the caucuses and the Russian people. A metro station would be a pleasant place to get lost in here in Moscow for the history buff and art lover.;5;June 15, 2017
Metro like a museum;Extraodinary feeling. Metro station looks like museum room!Beautiful!That is unique feeling you must expirience when visiting Moscow!@;5;June 15, 2017
Book a Metro Tour!;Phenomenal to see that there is a huge amount of art underground. Book a tour to do yourself justice and see the difference between all the different stations.;5;June 15, 2017
World-Class;During my tour to Russia for two weeks, I was always mesmerized with the Moscow Metro. All stations are just like tourist spots themselves. Full of historical architecture and design, clean and comfortable. It connects you easily to different good places within the city.;5;June 15, 2017
Impressive;Grand and functional what a metro systemTrains every 2 minutesFast reliable and only 55rubles a journey The deco and artwork is incredible, nothing like I have ever seenHow would I love this system in Australia, Melbourne considers a train every 5 min as capacity, Moscow metro its every 2 Brilliant fast cheap and best way to get around Moscow;5;June 14, 2017
Very nice;An attraction on its own. Was used as shelter back in the days. Very clean and safe and quick and cheap;4;June 14, 2017
One of the best metro systems in the workd;We LOVED the Moscow Metro!  While we did not go on a specific metro tour, we manage to hit all of the best ones during our four day visit to Moscow.  Most beautiful - KOLOMENSKAYA, most elegant - BELORUSSKAYA, most unusual - KIEVSKAYA, another great Station - NOVOSLOBODSKAYA, all on the Brown Circle Line #5.  Other stations of note are  MAYAKOVSKAYA on Green Line #2 (beautiful lighting) and Ploschad Revolyutsil on the Deep Blue Line #3 (with sculptures of Bolshevik scenes/people).We had absolutely NO TROUBLE using the metro.  I had a English-Cyrillic map which I had studied prior to arrival.  I had pre-printed all the station names in Cyrillic prior to our arrival.  You can buy tickets from the machines or from the ticket seller (One ride costs 55 RUB.  One ride ticket is good for as long as you want to ride as long as you do not surface).  Once inside a station, I simply showed my destination to someone (the young people were the best since most spoke a bit of English) to point out which DIRECTION TRAIN I should take.  Moscow Metro is easy since both directions of trains are from the SAME PLATFORM.Transferring lines was very easy too since the lines are painted on the floors by number and color.  So if we got off at Teatralnaya on the green line #2 and wanted to transfer to the deep blue line #3 at Ploschad Revolyutsil, we simply followed the painted  "BLUE 3” to the desired station platform, then showed someone our destination to point out which direction train we should take.Trains came approximately every 3-4 minutes on all lines we took.  Puts the NYC system to shame!BEST fact was that the metro NOW ANNOUNCES ALL STATIONS IN ENGLISH!  This was instituted just about a month ago!  So very helpful!  The World Cup is being held in Moscow in 2018 so they are getting ready to welcome the world.  Who knows, the signs may even be in English soon!;5;June 14, 2017
Must do! I did with Moscow Free Tours;Such unique underground stations! I did this tour with Elena of Moscow Free Tours, her enthusiasm for Russian history, the deStalinisation (she showed us the pictures of before/after for some of the mosaic/artwork), Russian beliefs (they Rub certain parts of statues for good luck or fertility!) and the efficiency of their underground transport. 1 train every 45s during peak hours in stations built from 1935!!The metro tickets are fixed price for any distance you take. The same ticket (e.g. For 2 rides) can be used for 2 people at the same time!;5;June 14, 2017
The Metro stations are very clean and nice;The metro stations are built very well. They are very well maintained. They are clean. Every station has a lot of history and also the stations depicts a lot history (although I got to know a lot of them when the guide told me). They are really beautiful and worth a visit.;5;June 13, 2017
Efficient and Beautiful;I rode the metro everywhere on my recent three day visit to Moscow.  Easy to use and cheap.I wanted to move about the city freely so I bought a three day pass. 400 RUR. Break even at eight rides.So you don't read Cyrillic. Not a show stopper.  If you have time to download Memrise before going and study the alphabet you will gain a bit of confidence.If you're in town for several days I would get a local Sim.  MTS and Beeline are everywhere and for less than ten bucks you can get a data sim.  Now download Yandex Metro and Yandex Maps.  Settings in Metro let you change between English and Russian.  Metro always highlights your closest station.So use Google maps to get directions. Now you have two station names.  Find them on Metro and then switch the app back to Russian to follow signs in the Station.On the train maps and announcements in Russian and English.If you make a mistake no big deal, get off at the next stop and cross over.Male announces into town. Female away from city center.The metro is beautiful. Enjoy.;5;June 13, 2017
Each station has a unique design.. Too pretty!;Went to 4 different stations and they are all different, in terms of design. You feel like you're in a museum or gallery or some ancient greek building. It's just amazing. Would love to visit more stations but had other things to see so we left after the 4th station. If you have time, do visit more stations... You will be impressed by their wonderful designs!;5;June 13, 2017
An Essential Element;A visit to Moscow without using the metro is just unthinkable.  I'd like to offer a competing entry to the official tripadvisor photo of the Mayakovskaya station.  Nicer, no?;5;June 12, 2017
Amazing Subway;We stopped at several stations on the Moscow subway system each one more elaborate and gorgeous than the last. Each station is intentionally different and the walls, chandeliers and floors are beautiful. Several have mosaic art works and all have sculptures on the walls. The walls themselves are made of marble and the columns are also decorative. Very interestingly, Stalin was in several of the original works of art but has been removed from them all, to be replaced with other items. This subway was also one of the few places that I saw statues of Lenin during my day in Moscow.;5;June 12, 2017
Really incredible.;Do not miss a tour of the Moscow Metro system; this is a must see. I toured with Go Russia and had a great time.  Fantastically beautiful. So many photo ops.  Great way to get around the city quickly and cheaply.  Caution: very busy at rush hour on business days.;5;June 11, 2017
More than just a mode of transport;Despite warnings from other Western tourists of the difficulty in using the Moscow Metro, other sources had advised we should.  We're so glad we did; it's not just a mode of transport, it's a whole experience.  We got our tickets at Biblioteka Imeni Lenina for a trip on Red Route - Line 1.  We purchased our tickets from a ticket machine using debit/credit card, on another day we used the Kacca (ticket) office.  The machine could be changed to read in English, and the ticket attendant understood English/pigeon Russian enough fur us to get by.Either way we were soon down the stairs, swept our tickets over the reader to allow us access, and onwards towards the platforms.  This being an interchange station we were soon hopelessly lost, but asking a local got us pointed in the right direction.  Be advised, the Metro is very deep in places so the escalators are relatively very long indeed - much longer than London Underground for example.You will need a map or an app to help guide you; the lines are colour coded, but directions are not indicated. Instead, the following stations from that platform are listed in order.  It follows then, that if you even have a little knowledge of reading Cyrillic this will give you a major advantage in recognising the upcoming station names. Once you have chosen your direction of travel and got on the train (they arrive every 2-4 minutes in our experience) on-board announcements are made in English and Russian as to the next station.  This will confirm you're going in the right direction.The trains themselves are for the most part a uniform Soviet-era green, and are roomy inside.  Once the doors close, the trains lurch into action with surprising vigour, and have just as effective brakes from their brisk cruising speed.  The coaches do have maps and station lists inside, again to confirm your direction of travel.  Otherwise, the seats are clean and comfy, with plenty of handrails for standing passengers.The stations are an attraction in themselves - most are arched internally and ornately tiled.  Some even have gold trim, chandeliers, and delicate detailing.  All the stations are laid out on the same template, with a central concourse leading to up and down platforms on each side.  They are architectural wonders that deserve attention - take time to have a look round, even if you have to catch the next train, they really are that interesting.  The exteriors are sometimes just as palatial with Romanesque columns outside.Don't be scared of using the Moscow Metro, but embrace its wonders - it's one of the Moscow must-dos.;5;June 11, 2017
Magnificent station;Huge stations with excellent decoration and perfect network of Moskva transport! Trains are old,but its like historic touch:-) My favourite is Mayakovskaya station with epos on ceiling!;5;June 11, 2017
Spotlessly clean and efficient;Despite being more than 100 years old, Moscow Metro is very well maintained. The stations are spotlessly clean. Train services are efficient and frequent.;5;June 11, 2017
Perhaps the only good thing Stalin did?;The stunning stations are a highlight of Moscow, and it's really worth figuring out how to get to them by metro to see such a variety of architecture and artistry. Propaganda in pictures!;5;June 11, 2017
Not like US Metro;The Moscow metro was excellent.  Clean a with stations with sculptures and other interesting things. It is worth a trip evenif you do not need to go anywhere. The Washington DC metro is good but this is much better.  The NYC metro does give you a chance to see wild life - rats;5;June 10, 2017
Great option : Soviet era, trains need replacement;Certainly faster than trying to get around this city by car. The underground stations are amazing in their architectural presence, certainly worth seeing for sure.;4;June 10, 2017
awestruck!!;Moscow metro is beyond words..!! this one is gonna be long, but please bear with me, as I need to do justice to this underground marvel.. this public utility is not just a utility service, but also a proof of the technical achievements of soviet russia, visible reminiscence of propaganda based administration and an architectural wonder. To start with, its cheap and with a map, you'll be an expert to navigate the system in about a couple of line changeovers. Costs you 55 rubles to enter the metro system and as long as you dont come out of a station lets you travel as much as you want across the length and breadth of the system. Stations have wifi, even though the signal strength is fluctuating probably due to the labyrinth of  levels and passages down there.. Once you collect your ticket and enter the system, you are in for a shock to see how deep the escalator takes you.. its about 84 mtrs at the deepest.. We decided to explore the entire metro on our own, getting down at every single station, exploring around and continuing through out the system.. the signages are all in russian, however you can pretty well follow the system with a map and following the color coding as well as the numbering system.. the map too is in russian, but the pronunciation of each station name is also given in english alphabet.. you can try overlapping the map with a tourist guide map, to identify whats above you at each location. identify which direction you gotta go, plot your next station in the rigth direction on the map, look for the arrows leading you to the correct platform. each station has a story to tell and visual treat to offer.. imagine these places functioning as armed forces operations centers during the war and being equipped to survive a nuclear threat during the cold war.. brown ring (#5 line) stations and the ones falling inside this are the best.. I suggest exploring these on your own than paying exorbitant rates for a guided tour group and seeing just a few stations.. some lines run those vintage cars exclusively.. They are real fun to ride, as they accelerate real quick from stand still and u literally will have to cling on to the nearest pole, to prevent yourself from flying.. avoid the metro during weekdays and peak hours.. gets very crowded.. weekends from morning to early evening, its a breeze.. the entrances to the stations at the surface levels are buzzing with activity.. live bands, food joints and watering holes are there in plenty outside almost all the stations.. a must do for anyone visiting the city..;5;June 10, 2017
The deepest escalator at Victory Park Metro;Moscow Metro is the most interesting metro stations in the world. Three minutes travelling on the deepest escalator at Victory Park Metro. The huge and long tunnel is best for photo-taking.;5;June 10, 2017
One of the best in the world;Moscow metro is not only a transportation mean but also an architectural masterpiece. Sure as a transport it is the most convenient, fast, clean. By architecture each station is different and beautiful. Important plus is that once you get into metro changing lines is free of charge.;5;June 9, 2017
Access;Still the best subway system in the world in terms of reach and speed. Some stations are mini museums. However, it's no place for old or anybody with limited mobility. The best way to travel in Moscow outside of the Garden Ring. If you are planning to move inside the ring, try walking.;4;June 8, 2017
So exquisite!;So glad that we got a chance to visit and ride the Moscow Metro, and so lucky that we were escorted by an amazing tour guide providing us interesting information. The art, the architecture and the history are magnificent. The train ride was the same as any other cities such as New York and London, and it was very busy even after the peak hours. We really enjoyed each station we visited!;5;June 8, 2017
Marvel architecture;What will you get In a metro ???? Was the typical question that I asked myself inspite of our guide insisting that it's our pride And when we entered the staircase and took the elevator which takes you down 65 Mtrs below ground non stop is when it dawned the brilliant architecture and hence tremendous respect to entire metro system build in this city A must visit but only problem being that there is no much help if you don't know Russian and its better to do homework before to take the metro (if you don't have a local guide);5;June 8, 2017
Best on the world!;Underneath the streets of Moscow, there’s a whole other world of opulent architecture for visitors to discover: the Moscow Metro.;5;June 8, 2017
Beautiful art and architecture;Many interesting art to look at, but big traffic and very noisy. Still will worry a visit! We didn't ride the metro though!;4;June 8, 2017
Amazing!;I’ve never seen a metro like this one. It is like visiting a museum. The escalators go many meters deep from the surface. Station have different art design themes. They are beautifully decorated with marble floors and walls, bronze statues, gorgeous stained glass windows, the ceilings are luxurious and resemble the ceilings in palaces with nice chandeliers. It’s amazing!;5;June 8, 2017
Prepare to be amazed ....;Make time to travel on the Metro. It's efficient, cheap and easy to use. The satr attraction, though, has to be the stations. It would be hard to describe how marvellously they are decorated. The art work is stunning. Go and see for yourself!;5;June 7, 2017
Find time time to see them, worth your time;There are many beautiful stations in Moscow, you can find more info in web. We went to one and it was amazingly great. If you want good photo, can avoid rush hour. Subway in Moscow is claimed to be the deepest also.;5;June 5, 2017
Enjoy the stations...;Even if you don't have a specific destination the metro stations are with visiting in and of themselves. They're like museums. So different than most other cities, especially in the US.;5;June 5, 2017
Must must visit;I had a great adventure when I first use the metro.  Since virtually everything's in Russian, I was like lost in wonderland. I somehow navigate through to my destination thanks to the courstey of strangers. Efficient, cheap, old world charm trains, deep escalators, great classical music playing and truly beautiful stations. Do not miss using metro and lose yourself:);5;June 5, 2017
An Interesting Experience;We took the Metro during the weekend so we did not have to deal with the rush of people. The architecture is very interesting and you will get to experience different time periods at different stations.;5;June 5, 2017
Top sites;Make sure you dedicate on morning to a Metro tour. Every station is different.  Its easy and the 55RB ticket will get to to many stops, granted you don't exit the station.;5;June 4, 2017
This was my biggest surprise in Moscow;Fast, efficient,clean, easy to navigate and beautiful. Several other major cities should come to Moscow to learn how to create a public transportation system that is a pleasure to use. And to make things better there is always a station a few blocks away. No need to speak Russian to enjoy and use. If you are in the city for several days get a multi day pass and enjoy. The most beautiful stations are the inner circle ones. If you are in town for several days like we were you will bump at them anyway but just Google them and hop on and off on the red and circle line.;5;June 4, 2017
Best in the world.;No doubts, Moscow Metro is the most beautiful in the world. All central stations are underground palaces.;5;June 4, 2017
Stunned by the way the stations were decorated.;I can't imagine the amount of hard work being put in each stations for these artworks. You may find some trains a bit old but the beauty of this metro is undeniable. The deepest metro system I've been on, it took us 2 minutes or so to go down the escalator. With Moscow's heavy traffic, the best way to get around the city is by metro. With a system covering almost every part of the city, this one of the most efficient metro.;5;June 4, 2017
The best metro in terms of function and beauty;Metro is easily the simplest way to get around in Moscow. Now with the second ring line, you are able to reach almost any place. The network reaches to far destinations as well. Fun fact that there are as many passengers in the Moscow metro per day as in London and NY combined. And, of course the beautiful stations. Simply stunning to say the least. The old classics are worth to see, but there are also nice new ones such as Troparyovo. They have updated the voice announcements and you can now hear the metro stations being announced in English almost in every place.;5;June 3, 2017
Very clean and efficient;The Moscow Metro system is second to none that I have ever been on.It is very efficient, with lots of different routes, and transfer points.You can get to almost anywhere you want to go in Moscow.It is very inexpensive, and even as an outsider, I felt very safe and comfortable.They say there is a lot of crime in Russia, but that has never been my experience.It may be that there is a lot of "organized crime", but the streets are safer than the streets here in the US.The Russian people are friendly, and inquisitive.When in Moscow, take the Metro, when possible.$15 will get you a week long pass!;5;June 2, 2017
Moscow Metro;Stunning metro. Super clean and orderly. The best I have seen. People are also friendly and polite. No one pushes you around. All in all a fabulous experience;5;June 2, 2017
Fantastic Metro stations;We visited the Metro as part of a walking tour with Ludmila from Happy Moscow Tours.The stations were a highlight of our tour, they are highly decorated and great to stop and take in.  Ludmila was very knowledgable and gave us a great insight into the history of each station, we visited 5 in all.It was better having a guide as we caught 4 different trains and she knew what stations to visit, if going on your own, plan your route first, the metro trains do announce the stations in English!Well worth the trip;5;June 2, 2017
Unbelievable architecture;The Moscow metro stations have some of the most unbelievable architecture to natch if not better any other in the world.  With trains passing through every minute or so, you will need to be quick with your camera to capture some of the amazing detail before your train comes in.;5;June 2, 2017
Stations are stunning! Very easy to use.;Buy your Troika card on entry: go to booth say Troika, hand over Rb300 or whatever you are wanting to charge it up with: a trip is Rb35 (less than $1).Note you'll need to know what the station you want to go to is called in Cyrillic but it's a great way to get around Moscow, feels safer than for example the Paris Metro and you'll miss out if you don't see the architecture!;5;June 2, 2017
Can't miss, each station different;Moscow Metro runs every 2 minutes in rush hour and almost that often rest of day.  Each station is different, and they are decorated as if they were palaces.  Our guide said that they were built by Stalin to be the people's palaces, so everyone could enjoy them.  All have different designs and lighting.  Most are decorated for the area around the station or for a famous historical event.  Plus you can easily get around using the metro (assuming you can read the alphabet).;5;June 1, 2017
Unbelievable;The stations are stunning. The interior, decor, lighting, pictures are superb. They are spotlessly clean. Amazing.;5;June 1, 2017
dirty place;most complicated and dirty metro ever, not comfortable at all. this is worst metro I ever seen around the globe;3;June 1, 2017
Very easy to use and gorgeous!;If you have successfully used the London Underground, you'll be fine on the Metro.  Fast, efficient and gorgeous stations.  Get off a couple of times and have a look, as each station is different.;5;June 1, 2017
Just wow;Easy connectivity to all streets,metros every few minutes...Fast and easily approachable stations ,tickets for 24 hrs are a good bargain.;5;June 1, 2017
Every station is a piece of artwork;Apparently every station is like a mini museum, full of amazing artwork pieces. There are a few stations particularly famous because people say they are the most beautiful. However, from personal experience, I could tell you that ALL stations are beautiful. All of them are worth a visit. However, of course it's unrealistic to do so as there are so many stations. That's why I think you should just go to the top 5 suggested by other travellers. However, if you have time, do visit a few more. The tracks are far underground and it's scary when you are looking down. Moscow people walk really fast, so be reminded to stay on the right hand side on the escalator. If not, Moscow people will push you. Btw, the metro is a really good way to explore the city. So even if you are not there to check out the cool work, it's still a very good transport.Highly recommend it!;5;May 31, 2017
Best metro, with room for improvement;We visited Moscow in May for five days and used the metro for sightseeing.We read about the metro in advance and had a good metro map and trip planned App showing stations in English and Russian. Nonetheless we were surprised for the better by the cleanliness of stations and platforms, and splendor of decorations.Lack of commercials is also great.What is not so great is lack of English signs when changing lines.;5;May 31, 2017
Great network, good value, impressive stations;Given the state of the traffic in Moscow, the metro system is by far the best way to get around.  Tickets cost just RUB 35 a ride and you can top up your handy TROIKA card easily at any station with either cash or credit card.  Many stations are beautifully decorated; those serving more than one line tend to have a different name for each line.  Trains are frequent but noisy.  Audio and ticker-tape style messages inside the trains are in both English and Russian.  Note:  although stations are accessed by escalators many include parts with only steps - these can be a bit awkward if you have luggage or mobility issues.;5;May 30, 2017
Wow;These stations are amazing. So beautiful its a shame they are underground.  Each one has its own style. Trains plentiful and clean.;4;May 30, 2017
Awesome;The metro stations look like museums at first glance. These stations are so clean and have zero graffiti. Each metro station has a different theme and the chandeliers keep changing in every station. The train comes in every 2 minutes and most of the people avail of this mode of communication.;5;May 29, 2017
Do your homework;We went with a guide who could take us to the best stations. If alone make sure you do your homework as not all the stations are decorated and it really helps to know the history of each station. Those that are decorated .... they are magnificent. For the cost of a single subway ride you can get a couple of hours of history and art. Don't miss it! I loved the fact that the locals could completely ignore the art while surrounded by snap happy tourists!;5;May 29, 2017
The most beautiful metro in the world;Moscow metro might not be the friendliest for the tourist, but it is definitely most interesting and beautiful one, that hides a lot of mysteries.Take a ride and try to explore as many stations as you can, I'm sure you won't be disappointed;5;May 29, 2017
Decorated underground metro with a story to tell in each station frescos;Palatial look , with train's moving every 30 secs with precision during peak hrs Different stations have peculiar designs depicting french revolution , stories of peasant communities etc;5;May 28, 2017
The Life of Moscow;Unbelievably amazing whilst having fun! Its like there's a Museum underground. It's very cool! In order for you to fully enjoy Moscow Metro, you must have the both versions of it - in Cyrillic and English. If you are lost, locals are willing to help. If time is not an issue and you love adventurer and discovery, its the best way to get lost in Moscow - thru the Metro. Every Metro stations are different and has their own story. Though most of the coaches/cabins are old, it is well maintained, clean, comfortable, and fast. You don't have to worry if you missed one because there's a new one coming like every 20 seconds. Its the fastest and comfortable way to navigate Moscow. We have visited some of the most beautiful metro stations - Kievskaya, Arbatskaya, Belorusskaya, Elektrozavodskaya, Mayakovskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Prospekt and Ploshchad Revolyutsii or the Revolution Square wherein one of the bronze sculptures — a dog that accompanies a frontier guard — is believed to bring good luck if you rub its nose and we did! yes! hahaha!;5;May 28, 2017
A Spectacular Metro----One of a Kind;This was actually a specific part of my Moscow tour and was well organized and conducted by our local Russian guide. One station was decorated by museum quality statues and murals. One of the highlights of my 3 days in Moscow.;5;May 28, 2017
Clean and fast;Traffic can be a mess in Moscow, so once during our 4 day trip we opted for the metro during rush hour. While it is full, trains come every 2 minutes thus making it not so crowded any more. Some of the stops have very nice decoration.;5;May 28, 2017
great transport system;this is the best way to travel around Moscow..lots of stations and good links..download the metro App and its very easy....the stations themselves are like small museums of bygone days.....and its very cheap to use;5;May 28, 2017
Very impressive!;I think it's good ideas to have these public spaces, especially metro stations that all citizens passing by everyday, built nicely. Not only people who pay taxes enjoy, artists and architects are offered platforms to show their talents.;5;May 28, 2017
Comfortable and easy to use;I was surprise as I hear many comments about very busy Moscow metro, however, during my visit there, I find metro is most comfortable transport to use. Public announcement is on Russian and English language , so it's clear for everyone, people are intelligent, no issues.;5;May 27, 2017
VERY NOISY SCREECHING TRAINS!;Tried travelling anywhere by car in central Moscow? walking would be easier but the Metro would be the best and the fastest!  Trains arrive practically every minute but oh what a racket they make!  Very old lines and trains!The wonderfully decorated Metro Stations we were taken to tour - met all expectations!;4;May 27, 2017
More than a transport system;With no Russian it is a true test to navigate around but well worth the effort if only to get off and adsmire the magnificent decoration of each station.;5;May 26, 2017
Very good lesson of History;By using Moscow metro lines, we can learn a lot about History. The stations are wonderful, very, very , very well decorated but we must have time to visit them. The best days to make a visit is during weekend because during the week, around  9 million of persons use the metro lines.The oldest are the most beautiful, although we loved all we visited. Must pay attention to go in the right sense and not to loose the company! Some stations have indications in English, the biggest number only in Russian, so pay attention!;5;May 25, 2017
Super Efficient Metro;After just a few rides on the Moscow Metro, it was clear that this system is incredibly efficient. Trains come every 2-5 minutes at peak hours, so you should never have a long wait. The stations themselves are really nice and clean (for a subway system), and many have nice decor.;5;May 25, 2017
A completely stunning underground museum and art gallery...!;Wow! What a treat to travel with the Moscow Metro! The architecture in the passageways and on the ceilings is not to be missed! The lighting is excellent and the trains quick, spacious, comfortable and immaculately clean, as is the whole of Moscow city. I especially enjoyed the brass sculptures at one of the stations we changed trains at. Truly incredible and worth a journey just to see how a little imagination in an underground network goes a LONG way towards making public transport a joy.....;5;May 25, 2017
Not your ordinary 'metro';The streets of Moscow are spotlessly clean and when you descend into its underground it too is so clean. Works of art adorn some station walls and bronze statues others. But, the chandeliers take the biscuit. Somehow I can't see them in London!;4;May 25, 2017
Amazing;Stopped off at a couple of stations to see the architecture which is great.The Metro is easy to use - 110 roubles for a couple per entry. You pay each time you return to a station. Trains very noisy but super-fast. Definitely economical;5;May 25, 2017
Worth a good half day visit;If anyone travel with no particular tour schedule or agenda, a ½ day tour inside the metro stations of Moscow is a good break - relax, spend whatever time one is comfortable, and enjoying the train and passengers come and go.  The interior of the metro station is something to appreciate, the sculptures, and decorations.;5;May 25, 2017
Amazing Public Transport;Fast, clean efficient.  One and two journey tickets may be purchased (R55 per ride) from the machine in the entrance hall – Machine has an option for English.  The best was to cover long distances quickly in the city.  It is not very convenient if you have heavy luggage as there are many stairways.;4;May 24, 2017
Moscow Metro Stations;When you go to Moscow, you also need to visit Metro. There are nearly  200 stations, but you may visit only some of them, because some stations are typal, for example  Pervomayskaya an Shchyolkovskaya( in Russian maps they are "Первомайская" and "Щёлковская")For the first time you may use an excursion, but then it is better to go on your own. Nowadays there are maps and pointers, so if you know on which station you entered Metro, you won't get lost.So, there are my 10 favorite stations:1) Partizanskaya2) Komsomolskaya(line first and five)3) Izmaylovskaya4) Vorobyovy Gory5) Oktyabrskaya6) Biblioteka imeni Lenina7) Kievskaya8) Paveletskaya9) Baumanskaya10) BelorusskayaAnd there are many other extremely amazing stations(the information of them you can find in the internet). Moscow Metro is waiting you!P.S. I want to advice you, that the best time to visit Moscow Metro is from 6.30 am till 8.00 am or from 9.30 pm till 11.30 pm .;5;May 24, 2017
A Must See landmark;Impressive landmark of this great City. No matter if you are on business or recreational trip the massive statues and astonishing architecture will keep you entertained. You will be ask yourself "am I sure this is a Tube?". A must see;4;May 24, 2017
Museum underground;A must see while in Moscow. We went to see 4 of the metro stations and all had different forms of art on display, sculptures, stained glass, murals, etc.;4;May 23, 2017
Hmust see Moscow metro stations;We visited the Moscow metros, the design and architecture is amazing.  The number of people that use the metro is greater than NY and London combined.  It is fast, efficient and cheap.;5;May 23, 2017
Just unique;The Moscow metro is unbelievable beautiful. Almost every station is beautiful like a museum or a church.;5;May 23, 2017
Fancy Metro stations;Visited three of the fancy Metro stations in Moscow. Very interesting and well worth the visit. Was a little intimidated at first, but found the system very easy to navigate and the stations very interesting. Very different décor in each station. These are the palaces of the people!;4;May 22, 2017
Must do it!;We were taken to see some stations as part of a Moscow tour. The best stations to view are those on the circle line, built in the 1950's in the Stalin era.You only need one ticket and can get on and off as many stations as you like. We started in the north at Novoslobodskaya and went anti-clockwise getting on and off at all the next three stations then going into the centre of Moscow on the red line. Apparently you could go all the way round the circle and all the stations are different. When you get off the train you're immediately in the decorated hallway, no need to move far away from the platform. Do it!;5;May 22, 2017
Quite a contrast to New York subways;It was worth taking a few rides on the metro.  The metro is clean, and many of the stations have beautiful art.;1;May 22, 2017
Unique;Unique to Moscow are these metro stations which are beautifully decorated with various themes.  Novoslobodskaya, Mayakovskaya, Elektrozavodskaya, Shosse Entuziastov, Nakhimovsky Prospekt, Park Pobedy, Ploshchad Revolyutsii, Victory Park, Prospekt Mira, Kievskaya, Komsomolskaya are particularly noteworthy.  A quality camera and sufficient time is a must.;5;May 22, 2017
Cheap and very frequent;A great way to get around Moscow. The roads are always blaocked and this si so much cheaper and quicker.;5;May 21, 2017
Bistro, Bistro, Bistro!;Travelled a few stops on this amazing underground rail system. On the face of it the trains a similar to London, but only stop for 1 min to unload / load. Hence "bistro" - quickly. However the amazing decor is the greatest difference. Often called Stalins Underground Palaces, the are filled with bronze statues and paintings designed to raise national pride. Paintings show patriotic parades and strong healthy people harvesting bumper crops and huge fruit and cabbages etc.  Statues celebrate national heroes and entrance lobbies are adorned with mosaics of military awards. An experience not to be missed.;5;May 21, 2017
Great to explore;So worth taking time out to see the metro amazing! Easy to find your way around! Better than London Very cheap! A must!;5;May 20, 2017
Swift service;Moscow Metro is a very large rail complex indeed. Many of the stations are worth a visit just for the art of their platform areas. on this trip I again travelled on some very long and steep escalators. the safety record is good and no one hurries - despite the hectic life of Moscow above ground. Trains are clean, efficient and while there is never enough seating passengers are polite and careful of each others' personal safety.;5;May 20, 2017
Station To Station;We bought a day ticket and went Station surfing. All lines are pretty well signed. Tip would also be to remember the name of the end of line Station to ensure you're going in the correct direction. On board, stops are also signed and spoken in English. Identify the ornate stations from a guide book and hop on an escalator and let the adventure begin.;5;May 20, 2017
Tour;No wonder people tour the metro. Every station is decorated in a different style with wide walkways and frequent service. It moves 9 million people a day in style. The trains are quick but boring but the stations ah fantastic. Sadly they even have photo selfie guides!;5;May 20, 2017
Useful;Flexibke and very useful oneEasy to move of you russian speaker.Not all signs are in English......;5;May 19, 2017
Underground palace!;The best metro/underground to travel. Clean, user friendly, beautiful! Try to avoid peak times though Just few pictures...;5;May 17, 2017
Metro is unique;There have beautiful wall paintings.Finally subway train was delayed twenty-seven seconds.it has access to all parts of the city. it is very cheaper .;5;May 17, 2017
Safe,comfortable & beautiful;Very comfortable...quite safe,and the stations are fantastic..some of them are really very beautiful..for example Komsomolskaya,Ploshad Revoluzii.;5;May 17, 2017
Nothing like anything else;This metro is actually an art exhibit at every station. There is nothing like it in the US or any other place that I know of in Europe.Paintings, statues and carvings grace all the platforms, some have chandeliers, you won't see graffiti..The Russian are very proud of these art displays and rightly so.;5;May 16, 2017
Incredible!;Taken to four stations as part of our tour. All amazing, stunning art work. Not to be missed when in Moscow.;5;May 16, 2017
Top notch undergroud system;Worth spending some time visiting various underground stations. More like palaces than functional stations. Most of the artwork is amazing and the bronzes are beautiful. As a plus i found them very safe and efficient. Don't miss them.;5;May 16, 2017
Fast and link all city;Very frequent and cheap way to move around.Ticket is only 55 rubles and you can go anywhere in the city.Just get a map before using it as it's all in Russian: line number and direction is the key to move around;5;May 16, 2017
Our experience buying tickets at the Kacca...;Just wanted to share that I read the TripAdvisor traveller article on "Moscow- How to Use the Metro" and tried the suggestion to use fingers for the number of rides wanted (don't know Russian), but didn't get the outcome expected. There were 4 of us travelling, but I went to the Kacca with one friend and held up both my hands. I thought I would get 1 card with 10 rides on it to use between all of us. However, the Kacca lady proceeded to issue individual cards and I had to pay with my credit card after each one (a slow-ish process of PIN verification and receipt printing). I was totally confused, not knowing what she was doing, and tried to gesture that I wanted 10 rides on 1 card. She said a lot in Russian and gestured back with 2 fingers (indicating 2 rides) and continued to issue more cards. Confused, we left the counter after the third card as I knew we could get the same thing done at the automated ticket machine ourselves...ie, get a card with 2 rides on it for 110 Rubles each. This card, like the ones the Kacca lady gave us, could not be topped up at all (we tried and a station guard confirmed it could not be done). So for our entire Moscow stay...not knowing any Russian...we were buying these 2-ride tickets for 4 people each time, which, whilst it was an easy process, was a bit of inconvenience. I should also mention that the Kacca lady was highly frustrated with us and she did let off some steam. Maybe we would've gotten the desired outcome at a different Kacca, but that first experience put us off.Other than that, Moscow's metro are good-looking and efficient. With Google Map and Yandex Metro apps, we knew which stations were closest, where to switch lines and the stations' Russian names. At times, expect to walk through long tunnels and up/down long escalators for train connections... we thought we were lost at one stage after several turns, but realised it's quite a normal process here. Another thing we noticed in Moscow is that sometimes, there seems to be no way to cross a wide street except to go underground via a metro station with multiple exits. This is usually simple enough to figure out after a wrong exit, but a couple times, we had to go through an entry that looks a lot like a metro entrance, but isn't, and exit that to reach the opposite side. It seems obvious now, but look through the doors and if there are little shop stalls along that passageway, then it doesn't lead to the trains, but to different streets.;4;May 16, 2017
Most beautiful subway stations;Visiting Moscow by subway is not only convenient but it is sightseeing itself. Every single station differ from the other ones and it is worth visiting as many as you can. Some of them are so glamorous that they could easily be mistaken with a grand theatre or opera hall. I have not heard or seen anything similar and definitely nothing comes close to its scale.;5;May 15, 2017
The 8th Wonder of the World;It's grand, it's beautiful, it's complicated, and it never gets old. Some stations are faceless, but most of them are worth seeing. To see this beauty, one should indeed visit it in weekend early mornings.If one wants to experience Moscow life style, they should go down in a weekday morning, during rush hour - that's an adventure. Come now, feel packed like sardines!;5;May 15, 2017
Must see;Metro is one of the most beautiful I have seen, great, impressive and clean. Some stations are real concert halls with pictures and statues of worthy museums.;5;May 15, 2017
Beautiful Architecture;Good connectivity. Beautiful stations. We went to some stations just to see the architecture. Good vision;4;May 15, 2017
Do it!!!;We are an older couple who travel independently and speak zero Russian and I knew when we started that I wanted to ride the metro. After reading all the intimidating warnings and reviews I became increasingly nervous. Ok folks go for it. In today's world if you are reasonably intelligent this isint do difficultDo your research where you want to go and write down the name of each stop you want.Like all major cities the lines are marked by different color.Find your destination and count the stops from where you get on .Do not depend on Google maps as your phone may not work. Surprise to me!The hard part for me was figuring out what direction the train was heading in,yes the overheads tell you the last stop and therefore direction BUT if you can't read the signs it's unnerving. Here's what I did. I looked at my next expected stop and wrote it down​. When the train came we got  on if the next stop wasn't the one I wrote I knew to get off and go back in the other direction. Happy to say only went wrong once. We travelled several different lines with change of lines needed but looking at at the metro map all was doable. Our last trip was at evening rush and getting on the up escalator was certainly interesting but again millions do it every day and so can you.;5;May 13, 2017
brilliant;with so many stations and very fast speed, you can reach wherever you want on time. the stations are so amazing and old. if you show the stations picture to some one, they will never find that it is a metro station. it is more like a concert hall or dance saloon.;5;May 13, 2017
Stunning Architecture;Opened in 1935, it is the 5th longest in the world(the 1st- Shanghai Metro). The rapid transit system stations in Moscow are really amazing historically and architecturally;5;May 12, 2017
Own metro tour;If you have time 2-3hrs, do join any Metro tour conducted by any tour agency in Moscow, please go for it, it's such an amazing tour, I did it myself using google selecting famous Metros and still I had to use 2days, and I tell you there is so much to see and so much history to learn from it with the vibrant colours and architecture...it is just simply amazing!;5;May 12, 2017
Great Transportation plus wonderful artwork!;The Moscow Metro is extremely clean, trains arrive/depart with great frequency.   The statues at Revolution Square are magnificent.  Fast, reliable transportation plus a clean environment are worth seeing.  Plus the Metro takes you what to go!;5;May 12, 2017
Stunning Architecture;Well worth the 50 rubles to see some really stunning frescos and statues in a very unexpected place. Very clean and safe. Some signs in English but you need to know where you are going or speak Russian !;4;May 12, 2017
Clean, efficient, not to hard to figure out and artsy;I was in Russia for 5 days and took the Metro exclusively.  It took a day but I was able to finally figure it out.  The stations signage is usually in cryllic but sometimes in both.  Being an English speaker my maps, guide books were in English with the English names of the stops.  Once I found a map that had both languages on it, it was easy to get around.  The fact that the lines were numbered also helped.  I had the phone app for the Metro but being old school the paper map worked best.  There was one rainy day in Moscow so that was my day to explore the Metro.  Using the my best of list of stops I think I hit all 10 on the list.  I probably spent as much time looking at the stations than I did riding the lines.  All very beautiful.  Go, you will have no problems.;4;May 11, 2017
Underground Palace;If you visit Moscow, you must get yourself a metro card and explore Moscow’s beautiful metro stations. They're like underground palaces. Just $1 per ride and you can see them all.;5;May 11, 2017
No need to hire a guide;We did our own tour of the metro - there are so many beautiful stations.  The metro map we had showed the different lines by colour - without reference to line #.  For easier transferring, make sure you know both - e.g.Red = line 1; Green = Line 2;Blue = Line 3 etc.;4;May 11, 2017
Unbelievable;All what you read about the stations it's true. Still, carefully select which stations to visit. Note that the pictures are taken from the track halls and not the lobbies.;5;May 11, 2017
Mayakovskaya;my favourite station was Mayakovskaya. Art Deco on its best and a lot of history happened at this station;5;May 11, 2017
Amazingly beautiful;We visited approximately 6 different metro stations to look at their style. So clean and beautiful, each with its own very unique decoration. Truly incredible; the use of art, wood, marble, granite, ceramics and mosaics. Many pieces telling stories about life and socialism in Russia. The lighting in the stations was also very unique. A great piece of Russian history that has been preserved for all time and treasured by its residents. If you can go with a guide I think that you will get the information you need to make the trip worthwhile.;5;May 10, 2017
Worth travelling;Before visiting Msocow I've heard a lot about metro so it was one of the main thing on my "to see" list. I have to say it was amazing. Every station is different so I really enjoyed changing lines during the trip to see as many as possible. The elevators are so height that people with fear of heights might feel uncomfortable. Travelling in metro might be bit difficult as there are not many English signs ... if I remember correctly only 1 line has announcements in English for main stations.;4;May 10, 2017
Clean and efficient;Moving millions around Moscow daily. The metro is efficient and cheap. I'm told it's crowded - compared to London, it is not. The architecture in some the stations is a sight to behold. Soviet architecture at its best. Revolution square is worth a look for that alone. It's not a tourist attraction as such but still worth seeing and it's not like you'll hire a car in Moscow!;4;May 10, 2017
Wonderful metro with nice decorations;Even cyrillic is difficult to read go inside you may have a good contact with people . Walls are decorated with USSR panels ,very original .;5;May 10, 2017
Overrated;Trains are filthy and old and the descriptions of stations being lavish and classy are definitely overrated.  Even the nicely decorated stations are lit with cheap dingy lighting and badly maintained.Don't waste your time going on the Metro to enjoy the stations, just use them as a means of getting from one place to another.  They are really no big deal.;2;May 9, 2017
obliged to visiti it;Moscow is surely a wonderful city, is very beautiful and romantic walk around, but surely every person is obliged to go down, in the underground, to visit, at least, a couple of stations of metro.One is full of statues in bronze, very big and extremely beautiful. Another is full of mosaics, extremely lightful, Very different and original.I was enthusiastic visiting  metro in Moscow.;5;May 9, 2017
Amazing;One of the weirdest metro lines I have ever seen. I also was shocked by the fact that the metro lines are too deep underground. I have to mention that I tried to count the time that took me to get to the train with the rolling stairs and it was at least 2 minutes !!!!! In addition I have to mention the beautiful art that decorates the facilities which makes it kind of a museum too.;5;May 9, 2017
Modern movement;For strangers, getting around via the Moscow metro can be a daunting experience. However, it is well worth the ride.  All stations are not beautiful but the are all engineering marvels. The depth at which they are constructed and the speed that you get around at are almost unbelievable.  All walls are marble andgraffiti free.  There are no panhandlers and people move freely without fear.Some stations have mosaics, sculptures, paintings and ornate soffits and fascia. These stations should not be missed on any trip to Moscow.;4;May 9, 2017
O-M-G!;I'd heard the metro was pretty special in Moscow, but I certainly wasn't prepared for this!  One of the most amazing feats of beautification of a public amenity I have seen! We did a tour with Moscow Walking tours which is recommended not just for the tour, but also for the instruction of how to get around the metro on your own. The Cyrillic alphabet can be a little daunting!;5;May 9, 2017
a must to see the showy soviet might;not all metro stations were created equal.  so make sure to do some research on which stations to visit.  most beautiful ones are on the circle line that goes around the city.  these are truly amazing.;5;May 9, 2017
Superb architecture;Coming from NYC, of course I was stunned at the cleanliness and wonderful architecture of Moscow's metro system.  Don't miss pictures of all their major stations.;5;May 8, 2017
Must do;Took a tour only to ten selected stations, that took about 2/3h.Real beautifull places...art for free.Download metro app; it has the option for english and cyrilic, very helpfull to travel the metro. The price of the ticket it's about 0,8€ per trip. If you exit in one station will need another one!Google for: "Moscow metro: the cheapest and most incredible museum" and you'll have a "tour" and a brief explanation of them;5;May 8, 2017
Step back in time;The stations are well maintained works of art. Each is a little different but the decorations are late 20's early 30's.;4;May 8, 2017
Must do;You just need one metro ticket ( 55 rubles ) without exit out of the gantry , you can see lots of beautiful station . It is worth trip,  put this on your MUST do list;5;May 8, 2017
More than just transport! Not to be missed.;Figure it out - not only is it cheap, it is reliable, fast and one of the most beautiful metro's I have ever seen.  Not understanding Russian and no English is no reason to not use the metro, it works like the Underground.  Identify your route, choose the end destinations, familiarise you with the Russian names and work according to the colours. Also have a map of the metro with you, preferably one with the names of the stations in "our" alphabet".  The architecture is rich and varied, marble, bronze, stained glass and chandeliers decorate the stations. Revolution Square station is lined with life-size bronze statues of model Soviet citizens, from parachutists to poultry farmers. This is a true experience, do not miss it, the most important thing in Russia - due to the language barrier is to do your homework beforehand.;5;May 8, 2017
Superb way of transport;I went wit my friend to moscow ... we got unlimited tkt  For 3days 400руб....metro s too good n travels 9-10km  n jst 5min ... can travel so fast from one place to another;5;May 8, 2017
You need to go in just to see the beauty underground.;It is quite daunting using the metro in Moscow as it is in any other city especially when you don't speak the language! You can treat it as an adventure or a challenge? Frustrating but worth it when you do get to your destination! Cheap way to travel especially in Moscow as the taxis are usually held up in the worst traffic I have ever seen in my life in any country! But these metros are works of art with their chandeliers and statues and marble walls and columns. Every station has a different look but try to find the one with the statues of soldiers with the dogs that you rub the dogs nose for good luck.;5;May 8, 2017
Nostalgia into Russian grandeur;Had visited this with family made in 20 th century around 1930 it was ahead of time vision of Russian;5;May 8, 2017
Good deco in metro;The deco of Moscow metro was really stylist! The carriage was clean. The photos taken looked so classics! And the service of metro staff (tickets counter) was good even though she cannot speak English!;4;May 7, 2017
Holy subterranean adventure!!!;Traveling across the world and being budget conscious, my family often takes mass transit. Having been on subways all around the world never prepared us for this. In my humble opinion, this was better than all the museums combined. Never have I seen a public transportation so clean and over the top beautiful. We took an entire night and rode the ring around Moscow stopping, photographing and thoroughly enjoying each stop. Each stop was its own museum and statement about the many faces of a diverse nation that has a deep pride and history. I would visit Moscow again simply to explore the metro, truly an amazing experience not to be missed.;5;May 6, 2017
Some very ornate stations in efficient metro system;The Moscow Metro is an efficient system, that has the added bonus of some very ornate stations.Several of the stations include either statues (depicting various workers and military figures), ornate decorations, chandeliers, or intricate mosaics on the ceiling.Well worth the very reasonable cost to travel on the Metro just to see these stations.However, do note that not all stations are as decorated, as the station nearest to the Northern River Terminal (at the end of one of the lines) is very much a functional station, with a lot of breeze blocks!;4;May 6, 2017
Extravagant metro;Try to spend at least half a day visiting all those beautiful stations. Definitely a work of art.My recommendation: Mayakovskaya, Elektrozavodskaya, Komsomol'skaya (circle), Paveletskaya (radial), Novoslobodskaya, Novokuznetdkaya, Arbatskaya (line 3), Kievskaya (line 4), Belorusskaya (circle), Ploschad' Revolyutsii, Slavyansky Bul'var, Park Pobedy;5;May 6, 2017
Surprise at Every Stop;Do yourself a favor and hire a tour guide. They know so much more about the architecture and history of each station. This is a must do while in Moscow!!;5;May 5, 2017
Just do it!;Beautiful stations, good working system. Easy to use and cheap. Safe and clean. Surprising details in Stalin's subway.;5;May 4, 2017
Very beautiful interios inside the station;Many stations are built and decorated in very beautiful and genuine Russian style. Even the trains are decorated in different styles. Traveling in some trains made me and my friend felt like we were back to the communist period. Worth your time to travel and make a stop in some station. The most beautiful line is the brown line.;5;May 3, 2017
Convenient;An excellent communication mode. The stations are well done up with certain themes. The trains run with good efficiency and interconnectivity is excellent.;5;May 3, 2017
Something unique;The Moscow metro is really something unique to see. Each station is different with a unique style. Try to stop in different stations, each of them will be a very nice experience.;4;May 3, 2017
A bit unfriendly to the tourist but well worth going through;The Metro in Moscow has plenty of beautiful stations and designs, and like everyone says, it is worth going through and taking time in several stations to have a look. Downside of this is that the Metro is not really setup for English speakers, and as a result all signs are in Russian only. This makes quick movement a lot harder – something that the crowds will not be patient with. Similarly, if you are trying to take pictures or appreciate the design, just be sure to get out of people’s ways and let crowds pass when trains pull up.;4;May 3, 2017
Sumptuous Circle Line!;The interiors of the metro stations have to be seen to be believed!  One day, we took the Circle Line and stopped at every station, photographing the different decoration at each.  There are different themes, some of which concentrate on mosaics, others on statues, others on friezes.    Absolutely brilliant and all for the cost of a metro ticket (55 rubles)!  The London Tube could take a few pointers from this!;5;May 2, 2017
Like in some museum;Many different metro stations, each of them has its own style, each is piece of art. Once you are in Moscow, you should save one day to see most famous ones. Take your time, there is art underground.;5;May 2, 2017
Attraction in Action;I think from all the things the capital may offer the tourist (and it can offer A LOT), the moscow underground is the most impressive and powerful. I suggest to take a tour with a guide in order to understand why stations are called these funny slavic names, who sponsored their construction, how many people are transferred by underground on a daily basis, etc.;5;May 2, 2017
It's simply amazing;I don't know why but Taganka is my favorite station despite a crowd of people there. There are a lot of old stations which are the best expositions of the USSR art.;5;May 2, 2017
Might be the only way to get from A to B in Moscow;Very efficient way to travel in the city. You should by a card with credits. Every entrance costs 35 rubel (very cheap!) and you can travel as much as you like. Kids under age 7 are free of charge (there is a supervisor on each entrance that opens a gate fir kids). Every 30-90 seconds new train arrives so there is no need to hurry. Highly recommended to install Yandex Metro App on your mobile, it will help you to navigate through the metro.;5;May 1, 2017
Great symbol of Moscow, stunning stations;This is a MUST for every visitor to this great city.The metro is THE means of transport in Moscow, it's ubiquitous, cheap and easy to use. It also gives the visitor a great chance of getting to know the layout of the city and offers some stunning architectural gems.Buy a Troika card to ease the rides as one doesn't have to buy tickets all the time. (One Troika card can be used by several people at the same time);4;May 1, 2017
Самое лучшее метро в мире!!!;This it the most beautiful metro in the world. Efficient, clean and simply amazing! It seems like being in a museum. You can really feel the sovietic atmosphere!;5;April 30, 2017
Metro or Art Gallery  ?;Had heard of it , yet taken by surprise at the sheer beauty of Moscow Metro Stations. Different ones modeled on different themes. Each rich with artifacts, paintings and murals. Use of marble, chandeliers and glitter very artistic.;5;April 30, 2017
Easy to see beautiful stations;The ticket is very cheap and you can change underground as much as you want! Almost all the metro stations are amazing and beautiful, so it is worth to travel around and have a look;5;April 30, 2017
Be Warned;I pride myself on navigating metro systems in foreign countries.  The Moscow metro is NOT tourist friendly and good luck asking anyone for help.  For some reason in the stations with multiple lines there were no signs indicating how to get to each train.  They maybe had a sign for the red or blue, but not for the green etc.  However, with that said, once we did go down with someone who spoke Russian, they are absolutely stunning and worth just riding to see the architecture.  Just go with someone who knows the system.  Either a Russian friend or tour group.;5;April 30, 2017
Wow!;Worth a tour just to look at all the beautiful stations Moscow Metro has to offer. It's like an almost free museum that allows you to travel from one exhibit to the next with a train! Be sure to look out for certain photograph spots as pointed out by red sticker labels on the floor to get the best shots.;5;April 30, 2017
Worth the time;Spent a couple of hours just cruising round the metro. Fantastic stations, statues, murals, chandeliers and more. Great for a wet day and almost free.;4;April 29, 2017
A "must" activity at Moscow;Our guide toured us on a Sunday for less people.  Strongly recommended for a tour if you could such that the history and most beautiful stations would be introduced.;5;April 29, 2017
Metro stations;Gobsmacking art and decor on the 6 stations we visited. Included marble and plaster mouldings, frescos and goldClean and easy to useBeware of having to get off train quite quickly;5;April 29, 2017
Awe inspiring;We were blown away the the architecture of the Metro Stations. Definitely worth taking the time to enjoy the stations while taking advantage of the efficiently of traveling around Moscow on the Metro!;5;April 28, 2017
Not so friendly;Let me start by saying that I Have used the metro in many different cities including Mexico and China. The Moscow metro is not the biggest but for sure has the most beautiful stations in the world. If you are not quick enough tidentifying and matching cyrillic signs you might be in a little bit of trouble. China stations have most if not all stations marked in Chinesse and English. Mexico metro has only Spanish, but it is readable. Moscow metro most signs are only in cyrillic. If you're lucky enough to catch the right train then you hace to count the stations to your destination. hey of course announce the station you're arriving to, but in Russian, Moscow metro can be efficient and beautiful but not tourist friendly at all.;3;April 28, 2017
Very old;But u can see all nations from over the world. It feels like u r still in ussr periodsuch nostalgic.. it reminds childhood in 90th;3;April 28, 2017
Easy to pay and use;Maps inside are clear (even if you have to match Cyrillic characters from your map to the signs) and the trains and platforms are clean.  Trains ran on time the day I was there.;5;April 27, 2017
easy to navigate, safe, and beautiful;stunning place! chandeliers everywhere, very very clean.  easy to travel and lots of helpful English speakers.;5;April 27, 2017
Extremely beautiful and extremely busy;I am not the first to say that Moscow metro is one of the most beautiful metro in the world. It has statues, fresco paintings, trains sometimes look like art galleries. It is all marble. But! It gets so busy during rush hours! Someone might literary push one out of the train or push one away without any 'sorry'. So avoid those!;4;April 27, 2017
Great architecture and atmosphere;Well worth visiting- the architecture and decor were incredible - could have ridden round all day looking at it all!!;5;April 25, 2017
Amazing stations !;Not like your normal metro stations like a grand house in England avoid rush hour times and enjoy.. Especially some the paintings;4;April 25, 2017
A Dazzling Experience;Get lost amongst the throng and visit as many beautiful Art Deco stations as you can. It feels like a truly grand subterranean world down there. Go and enjoy.;5;April 24, 2017
The wonderful subway halls of the Moscow Metro;They look like the ballrooms of medieval castles, that beautiful decorated and spacious. A must see when you visit Moscow. You won't be able to see this anywhere else in the world.;5;April 24, 2017
Must see during your visit to Moscow;I recommend to go in around 10:00 am when the rush hour traffic is over. Just buy a ticket and exit at any station in the centre. They are all different and usually spectacular. A real feat for the eyes. And for the ones who know the tube in London know that this metro almost never breaks down, is never late, has a higher frequency then London and transports the same quantity of passengers every day (9m from memory). And it is fast, really fast.;5;April 24, 2017
I've never been this excited to use public transport;Using the metro in Moscow is a real treat because every station is beautifully designed. Sometimes you can get off just to admire the station for a bit. It's well-maintained and a cheap, efficient way of getting around.;5;April 24, 2017
Be prepared;Moscow metro is a tourist attraction by its own. Some station are real works of art and they deserve to pay a visit. However, metro is a means of transportation first of all... ans as so you be prepared for reafing some cyrillic as well. You won't find and signs in English so you either have to learn how to read the names (fortunately I could deal with that) of the stations or download an app (the official one is very good, which even propose to which wagon you should hop on depending on your final destination and next line). Difficult to fully understand but very convenient.;4;April 24, 2017
Riding the Rails;Spent 3.5 hours on a cold, rainy Moscow Sunday to self tour the top 10 stations on the Metro. Easy to navigate once you get the hang of it (reading Cyrillic helps!). There are many websites that will help you navigate your trip, we used bootsnalls.com's guide.;5;April 24, 2017
Stunning architecture and art;A definite must do. You will see the mosaics, murals and beautiful statues in most of the stations. Especially the circle line, literally the line with a circle. The metro system is super clean by any large city standards.;5;April 23, 2017
Moscow Metro;The Moscow Metro is a must for all new tourists visiting Moscow. Extremely fast and cheap transport around Moscow City. The architecture of the Metro is a must see;5;April 23, 2017
Work of art and efficient transportation;The trains come about every 90 seconds and are efficient and fast.  The architecture and artwork makes walking through the metro like a visit to the museum.  Well worth spending a bit of time looking up at the ceilings and walls and visiting a few stations even if you don't use it for transportation.  Very clean for a subway (or in general).;5;April 22, 2017
Spectacular but...;Ok when you first visit the metro stations in Moscow you are left speechless. Huge stations most of them very well decorated that you think you are in a museum or something. Lots of people going in it's really chaotic, trains passing by every minute if not soone. The biggest problem of them all is that nothing and i mean nothing is in english. You have to try very hard to understand the russian signs and prepare very well on where you want to go as there are 10 diferrent lines and the distances are huge or you will just get lost in there.;4;April 22, 2017
Amazing;The Moscow Metro is truly a marvel for people who want to get from place to another the trains fast and clean lovely going;5;April 21, 2017
Decorative;Wow - what work it was to decorate these stations to be hidden underground !! It's an art and history lesson to take a guide and travel to the best stops- make sure you do it:;5;April 20, 2017
Family Birthday;Here for my sons 21st and got bullet train from St Petersburg...worth the effort !Metro fine once you get your head around it...v busy though !Beautiful stationsPeople v helpfulGreat systemBought 10 ticket card for my visit and did me n my sonSmart card systemJust stand up n do it !;5;April 20, 2017
Stunning experience;The art and architecture to be seen on the Metro in Moscow is absolutely stunning. Largely of the art deco period and constructed under Stalin a large amount carries Socialist and party propaganda but is none the less quite magnificent in its scale and beauty. The mosaics, sculpture and glass work are amazing and will be nothing like anything you will have experienced on any other metro system. When navigating your way around it will help if you are able to recognise the name of the station you are heading to in the Cyrillic alphabet. You don't need it perfect, just the basics. Highly recommended.;5;April 19, 2017
Must explore the metro system;The Moscow metro is a must for any trip to the city. Never seen before so many ornate and cathedral like stations. We did find navigation difficult and sometimes was not sure we were on the train taking us in the right direction. Not everything has English language translation which make exploring more fun. No need to worry if you are on the wrong train they run every couple of minutes.;5;April 19, 2017
The structures and images are amazing;if you are going to moscow you have to travel on the metro, very straight-forward to do. Tetralna is a must and it is the stop for the Kremlin and Red Square. You also have to see the statues and I insist that you touch the chicken statue, it will bring you good fortune.;5;April 19, 2017
This is really fantastic;We used a day travelling with the Metro to see the variety of fantastic stations.  You should try the circle line and you will probably see the most beautiful!;5;April 19, 2017
Unless you are fluent in Russian - go with a guide.;We had guided tour of the metro which took in all the key stations.  There is one with statues, one with marble (the overground at this stop goes to "White Russia" some with mosaics, and others with extraordinary paintings.  The tube map itself is straightforward, and when you are on the tube, information inside the carriages tells you where you are on the network - but it was still rather hairy - not being familiar with Russian script, and I was very pleased to have a guide.;5;April 19, 2017
Must see !!!;This is a very interesting Metro to know, has a lot of stuff to view. Beautiful statues and a lot of history !!!;4;April 19, 2017
An underground museum;It's an underground museum, the best metro in the world.To visit on Sundays or evening whet it's less crowded;5;April 18, 2017
Marvellous and grandiose;What a place!!! Never to be missed!!! It is a must see!! But better be with a guide since the signs are not translated. Make the tour of the brown circle on the map as hop on  hop off bus and you will enjoy to the max! Never to be missed!!!;5;April 18, 2017
Great way to get around the City;We purchased weekly passes for 800 rubles which was excellent value. We did a tour of the metro stations from our guide book, most were beautiful and very ornate with a lot of history.The Metro was busy all times of the day except Sunday but is a great way to get around the City easily,Use the colours and numbers to get around and look for the details and directions from markings on the floor.;5;April 18, 2017
Very easy to use;The metro is really clean and quick to use. The trains run every 1-2 mins and until late 1am I believe. Cost is 55 rubles for a single but if you get a card for 50 rubles it drops to 35. You can use one card for more than one personIn a number of stations there are stain glass , murals and other impressive art .This is nothing like the London Underground so use to get around and it's one price for however far you go;5;April 18, 2017
MOSCOW METRO;You cannot go to Moscow and not go into the metro. You will find some places that are real museums. Is very fast and the waiting time for the trains coming is very short;5;April 17, 2017
Fantastic;If you go to Moscow and do not visit its Metro, it means you did not visit the Moscow at all!! You will find one of the fantastic arts under the ground.;5;April 17, 2017
Best metro in the world;Honestly, when the Moscow metro is mentioned, you might think it is overrated. But no: wonderful, so clean you could eat on the floor, very diffrent stations (special mention to Revolutsii). Great way to visit the city;5;April 17, 2017
By far the best metro I have ever used;I used the metro loads as an easy way of getting a round the city cheaply and efficiently. The trains are very frequent, minutes apart and the stations are fantastic.Took me a while to get my head around the Russian station names, but most signs are translated into the English alphabet.The line directions are clearly numbered and having numbers on the floor helps as you are walking between lines.Trains start early and run quite late into the evening. (Midnight.)It does get very busy, but I always felt safe.;5;April 17, 2017
Moscow metro is the number one metro in world specially metro round track is very attractive;Moscow metro and Moscow rail is very good for travel everybody enjoys Moscow metro for travel I like every station of metro;5;April 16, 2017
A must in Moscow;The metro is simply fantastic! Extremely quick and efficient as a means of transportation, with stations that are more art museums than anything else. Go there!;5;April 15, 2017
A must see in Moscow;An amazing, efficient and cheap transport system that puts Londons to shame. A train every 3 minutes or less. Wide stations and platforms, easy to use map. We conducted our own tour pinpointing the most impressive stations from the Lonely Planet guide. Statues, art and chandeliers all feature all worthy of being in a museum. It does get busy in rush hour and the Russians do not have any social graces so just go with the flow!;5;April 15, 2017
Better Komsomolskaya than any other art gallery!;Google the most beautiful stations, make your travel map and you can see all of them buying just one ticket (55 RUB)! Just make sure not to travel in rush hour as the mass of people makes you really tired and angry.Don't miss out Komsomolskaya Station!;5;April 15, 2017
Underground palaces;This tour was amazing and I highly recommend. I had know idea that the metro was so extensive and beautiful! Marina was knowledgeable, personable and spoke great English!;5;April 15, 2017
Very impressive;You can spend some time traveling between metro stations. There are sone that are very impressive. If you travel by metro check before about 2 or 3 stations to visit.;3;April 15, 2017
Well worth a visit;The architecture here is amazing and the hustle and bustle is worth experiencing too. Be prepared to be shoved out of the way a lot!;5;April 14, 2017
A piece of art;The Moscow metro is a wonderful place to explore! You can spend hours and hours travelling from one station to another enjoying the beauty and different styles. A true piece of art! And at almost no cost at all. Watch out for the babushkas monitoring the escalators though, they will scream at you if you are not standing on the right side.;5;April 13, 2017
Great subway system!;The Moscow Metro system is amazing. The stations are almost like museums. Beautiful designs and often beautiful statues as well.The metro's come every 2-3 minutes and can take you throughout the entire city.;5;April 13, 2017
do not miss if touring to moscow;this tour involve long walking as well as metro travel take 2-3 hours,without local guide not possible for tourist,you will feel  that you are in palace,good picture,well maintain interior is superb.must to see;5;April 13, 2017
Great value!;The most useful transportation mean in Moscow. A combination of efficacy and reasonable pricing. Clean and beautifully decorated. At the rush hours trains arrive every 40 seconds - amazing!;5;April 13, 2017
Wow amazing value and so clean !;Travelled from our Hotel near Red Square to the large market at Izmailovsky Market.The Metro was so clean and beautiful . The trains were so fast and cheap - cost us about 75p return for this whole trip!People were very helpful when we were unsure which way to go. Just make sure you have a metro map with your starting location and final destination circled and anyone will help you.;5;April 12, 2017
Amazing!;I went around checking out metro stations and I was never disappointed! I only spent RUB 35 to get to all of them using the Troika card (don't take the exit, just take the next train).I was not able to visit all stations but these are the gorgeous ones I've seen which I would recommend you visit.Ploshchad revolyutsiiKievskayaArbatskayaKropotskinskayaElectrozavodskayaMayakovskayaPark PobedyTaganskayaNovobodskaya;5;April 12, 2017
Fastest and beuatyful!;This is a huge construction of undeground railways, almost 200km of iron roads.Each station in our metro is unique design, architecture and history. You may spent here a month to get all the feelings possible.Beside, it is the fastest city transport in the world. Trains coming each bloody minute!;5;April 12, 2017
absolutely worth spending an afternoon to see these masterpieces of public architecture;The Moscow Metro comprises beautiful strings of the loveliest spaces in public infrastructure architecture ever designed. It is absolutely worth visiting a handful of the historic stations (mostly inner ring) to see a system that this city and its citizens are rightfully extremely proud of. It shows in the manners with which people interact with these incredible stations.;5;April 11, 2017
The Moscow Metro; more than just public transport;Moscow came late to the world of city metro railway systems, but they have made up for this with some spectacular architecture. Although some of the new stations on the edge of the network are good, the real beauties are in the city centre. My favourite is Mayakovskaya on the green line, but do not miss Belorusskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Komsomolskaya or Ploschad Revolyutsii stations. Kievskaya is another beauty, detailed in decorations of heroic proportions. There are many more, and all can be visited for the price of one Metro ticket, - a few Roubles and great value. There is no problem in taking photographs, but do not use flash as it upsets the train drivers.;5;April 11, 2017
Photo crazy.;My goodness....the Moscow metro is amazing.  Can be a little confusing at first to get around, but you will soon get the hang of it.  There are murals, mosaics, statues, pillars....I could go on and on.!!!  Go after or before rush hour, although I got the impression that the people are use to the mad tourists with cameras down there.  A highlight, was when we had stopped to consult our underground map, and a teenage boy came up and asked if we needed help.;5;April 11, 2017
Simply beautiful;The metro stations, especially in the center, are real places of art. Even if you are not using public transport, go and see it. Beware of pick-pocketing (rare) like in any other crowded place.;5;April 11, 2017
Download yandex metro;All good since you get to know the "hieroglyphics" and the system. Paris was easy to compered to this. Don't be rude...ladies and older people first but hold your position ;);5;April 11, 2017
Try this once;Not easy for people who don't speak Russian, give yourself plenty of time to stand there and read the signs. Once you've figured the basics out, you'll love the grand designs you can see in the different stops around the city.;4;April 11, 2017
Moscow metro;Fast, immaculate, cheap and ornate.  Felt very safe travelling around on the metro.  Use a good map and learn to recognise the metro stations that you get off at!;5;April 11, 2017
Fantastic experience with my group;We had an excellent experience while visiting to Moscow metro with my group. It was very interesting to know  that this metro has been listed in UNESCO World Heritage site. It is amazing to explore how it was built in 1938 AD. Amazing interior inside station. lovely places;5;April 11, 2017
Lovely;Smaller than in photos. Lots to see in the vicinity. Close to shopping centre. Great for a day out. A must see.;5;April 11, 2017
Lovely couple of hours "metro hopping";We spent a delightful couple of hours hopping off the trains on various lines running through the metro system. Our route was based on a handout from the concierge at our hotel and included Komsomolskaya, Taganskayaon, Mayakovskaya and Belorusskaya stations. It is fairly easy to navigate the various lines (helped once by a local) and the sometimes very steep escalators, varying architecture and decorations are amazing. Excellent and inexpensive afternoon's 'entertainment' on a cold winter's day too.;5;April 11, 2017
Great way to get around Moscow;Although a bit challenging initially until you get used to the alphabet. Trains are very frequent and clean.;5;April 11, 2017
The most beautiful metro in the world;Hands down, this is the best, well decorated metro station that I have seen in my entire life. Some of the stations built are rich in history. There are no words to describe how brilliant the stations are. One must see with his own eye to fully appreciate it. The best time to take photo is early in the morning when the metro station just opened, or during late night when the station was about to close. Never go during rush hour to admire the beauty of Moscow metro because trust me, you will truly appreciate it in that situation. Besides the fantastic decor, the metro ticket is very cheap, costing only 32 rub one ride. Bear in mind, navigating the metro for first time might be little tricky as they still dont have many transliterations yet (if you can read Cyrillic that is very helpful).;5;April 10, 2017
Stunningly beutiful Moscow Metro;I had heard about how beautiful the Moscow metro was but words did far from justice.  We booked the Moscow Free Tour for visiting the Moscow Metro.  The stations are spotless, organized, and very very very beautiful.  Many of the stations are more museums than stations.  Adorned with bronze sculptures, stained glass art, murals, mosaics, all just stunning.  I was really surprised that there was no vandalism, no graffiti, no garbage anywhere.  The metro system is fantastic and takes you all over this vast and beautiful city.  Its the only way to get around.  Promise !;5;April 10, 2017
Mode of Transportation;Need to get around Moscow take the metro. Easy to navigate and some great sites while inside. Brown line has English with Russian for its stops, all other stops are in Russian. But shouldn't have an issue. My pics don't do it justice of the artwork underground.;5;April 9, 2017
Moscow Metro Tour;Interesting tour with guide Ania, higly recommend to get the first impression of the Moscow Metro. Tour could be longer - there is so many fascinating station to discover.;4;April 9, 2017
A highlight;We prepared ourselves carefully and then spent 6 hrs. down there to visit the following stations: Komsomolskaja, Belorusskaja, Nowoslobodskaja, Prospekt Mira, Kiewskaya, Majakowskaja, Park Pobedy and Revolyutsii, where we spent some time watching the people touching the statues.There is a Metro App, called Yandex that is a great help if you are not used to memorize Cyrillic letters, because you can switch back and forth between English and Russian. It was not easy for us, but also entertaining to try to find our ways. The trains are fast, operate in very short intervals and are very loud. Interesting to see that not one single wagon has graffiti and that compared to other metros it is spotlessly clean – no garbage, no chewing gum spots anywhere. It’s a highlight of Moscow and probably the most interesting Metro in the world.;5;April 9, 2017
clean, beautiful and crowded;always crowded but again must to see for tourists. Spotless, clean and unique place. The only beautiful metro in Europe.;5;April 7, 2017
Underground art museum;Moscow Metro is one of the largest undergrounds in the world. It has many lines and it's not that friendly for non-Russian speakers, but once you install the app with Metro you'll figure it out quite easy and get accustomed with the stations/colors. You will spend quite a lot of time underground as Moscow is huge, but they do offer free Wi-Fi inside. Most of the more central stations (Red Square inner circl) date back from the early 40s and they are a pleasure to visit and enjoy the free art exhibition (statues, mosaic, sculptures ecc.). Enjoy!;5;April 6, 2017
Moscow metro;Amazing. It's like stepping into an art gallery while waiting for the train. An absolute must. A useful tip is that heading towards the centre the train announcements are a male voice and when coming out of town it's female. Very helpful as a check your going the right way.;5;April 5, 2017
Amazing ancient metro;The Moscow Metro opened in 1935 was the first underground railway system in the Soviet Union. As of 2016, the Moscow Metro excluding the Moscow Central Circle has 203 stations and its route Today with a length of 339.1 km, it is the fifth longest in the world. It has over 200 stations and 44 of them are cultural heritage sites.The escalators go deep down to take you to the platforms. Every station is unique in design with the colour, design and art displayed. It was interesting to know that during the airstrikes of World War II the Moscow subway, as well as the subways in some other cities, became bomb-proof shelters. During the war the construction of the subway did not cease: seven new stations were built.;5;April 5, 2017
old but gold;Moscow Metro is very nice and tidy. The metro was designed to fight in the war.Very beautiful deep underground stations. The subway every day moved 6000000 people and is very regularly and on time. You must go with a guide to tell you the history of each station.;4;April 4, 2017
Fascinating glimpse of local life;Although it can be daunting the Metro is denitely worth visiting. Grand stations with fascinating historical artwork.  Very busy in the rush hour, take care as in any large crowd.  Difficult to navigate for a non Russian speaker but fast and efficient transport.;5;April 4, 2017
Easy to Navigate;I found the Moscow Metro so easy to navigate.  Even though my Russian is terrible, at one point I doubted myself as to my stop but asking, or rather miming & showing my map to a fellow Russian Metro traveler I was actually near the correct stop.  Buying a ticket was very straightforward & very inexpensive.  & the architecture is lovely.;5;April 3, 2017
A Must See in Moscow;Each station was a little different, but all were beautiful, some even museum quality. It is best to see several stations, and also best done with a guide both to  navigate the system and to explain the different station scenery.;4;April 1, 2017
It is an open gallery;Each station had a unique architecture and design. They are like museums and galleries full of paintings, sculptures and mosaics. You haven't seen Moscow if you don't see the metro.;5;April 1, 2017
Grand and beautiful;I have never seen metro stations like these.The sculpture, carvings and chandeliers gives you a feeling that you are in a palace.They are museums unto themselves. A lot of money has gone into it. The metro is a convenient and cheap way of travelling in Moscow. There is not a single word in English therefore it is vital you know the names of the stations in Russians. We had learnt the alphabets before going to Russia. It is crowded during peak hours but so are all undergrounds all over the world. Take a ride,you won't regret it.;5;April 1, 2017
some stations are astonishing museums (that beat "museums");Some stations are absolutely terrific (and all are infinitely cleaner than that of Paris (desppite much older wagons);5;March 31, 2017
Amazing !;Unparalleled experience ! Museum underground with all those frescoes and mosaics and statues, happy I took the metro this time and didn't go only by cab;5;March 30, 2017
Bit of everything;Stinky, crowded, useful- if you know how to use it. Beautiful architecture, and you would really see millions of ₽ investments. However- not friendly for tourists. Watch your pocket, purse, and handbags. Have a safe ride!✌;3;March 29, 2017
Beautiful decoration;Moscow metro stations are the best decorating metro I ever seen. Worth for seeing and photo taking. Joind the metro tour is good option because you will learn the history and story of each station decorating.;4;March 29, 2017
Encircle Line 14;During a hard days walking tour taking in the Moscow sites; we decided on jumping on this newly opened (September 2016) orbital Central Circle line; to both to rest our tried legs and to take in the Moscow landscape.Although it is not the metro (underground), it does link the metro stations and is a great way to see the ever expanding city.This 34 mile ride took us 1hr 20 mins, and at the princely sum of approximately 50p (GDP) is indeed a Yorkshire man's bargain. Highly Recommended.;5;March 29, 2017
Different and interesting;Only weak point is I cannot recognize station's name properly. No English signs for international travelers.... Except, it is fast, short interval between trains, beautiful decoration in some places,etc. Since the Russian language is enigmatic to me, I asked help, even if I do not understand their Russian, but I could guess the directions from their body language with full of kindness. Russians are very sweet and nice!!!;4;March 28, 2017
Fast,huge coverage,but confusing for non-Russian speakers;The Moscow Metro is excellent for both speed,and city coverage,but quite confusing for non-Russian speakers,as there is very little English signage,and less in the way of spoken English at ticket booths.Tickets should be bought at booths labelled "Kacca",and may cover several journeys depending on fee paid.The service is excellent and very fast,but worth knowing exactly where you're going to.The stations themselves are often ornate,and fascinating in themselves.Overall excellent,but go prepared.;4;March 28, 2017
Very easy to navigate for foreigners;We recently successfully navigated the Moscow Metro system.  It is very helpful to have the Russian-spelled names for where you are going, as the English translations are not posted anywhere, but otherwise we had no problems getting around, and were able to buy tickets from the machines in English.  The system is very efficient and clean, and architecturally beautiful.;5;March 28, 2017
Very interesting;A very interesting experience for someone who use the London Tube often. Train are a bit old but the internal architecture in some stations is beautiful. just stand and look.;4;March 27, 2017
Moscow metro;Every metro station in Moscow is like museum Most stations has lot art and it is amazing way to get around town it is quick and cheap the underground in Moscow;5;March 26, 2017
Confusion;Download yandex.metro - it will help you to plan your route and calculate even time to reach the destination. But in reality in centre everything is so confused and nobody can give you a correct answer. Sometimes I was misleading and felt claustrophobia cause ceiling is low and rush hour. Prefer to take taxi. Bad experience.;2;March 26, 2017
Old but very easy to use;We used the Metro every day during our 4 day trip around Moscow, once you get your head around the strangely named stations, it's very easy to use.;5;March 25, 2017
Extraordinary;This is well worth visiting. There are at least 13 main stations and another 34 stations worth visiting. Absolutely exquisite and highly recommended. Try find a book and read about the Metro beforehand, you'll appreciate it even more.;5;March 24, 2017
Every single Metro station is different;I was a student in Moscow for 6 years, the one thing that I've come to regret was not visiting all the metro station in Moscow.Every single one of the Metro station is unique and the design is vastly different comparing one to the other.So make sure to find some time to visit at least 5 top Moscow Metro station.For first timer to Moscow, get the 'Troika' card for cheaper public transport rates.;4;March 23, 2017
a tourist attraction on itself!;What do you do when it's rainy all day? Go and explore the Mowscow Metro stations as they are all unique and beautiful!;5;March 22, 2017
More than a Metro;This is a must see, repeat, must see, when you are in Moscow.  You can pay to have a guided tour, but it is fun and very safe and inexpensive and you can take more time to enjoy and explore and see the city folks various stations live this part of their lives.  Look to various web sites that discuss the the metro and arrange your own journey to 3-5 or more of the metro stations. Each station is different. Enjoy the mosaics, or the stained glass, or murals, or the brass statues (my favorite station - see the statues that are rubbed for good luck and notice that no matter how rushed the commuters are many still take time for their good luck rub).  Folks prize these stations and keep them clean and secure.;5;March 21, 2017
Stunning;This is a must see system for its wonderful architecture which is quite stunning. As in all places most locals rush through in a hurry, it is certainly worth pausing to look and think, and there are many benches which help. I give this 5 stars and red square only 4 if you want convincing - and all for 55r including rides!The system itself merits some study, I have to admit I went wrong twice, but I should have studied local alphabet more in advance. Also made one trip ar rush hour peak, not recomended. Train doors are unforgiving so would suggest not rushing on at last second as trains are very frequent.;5;March 21, 2017
Fast travel;Now uses electronic tickets that can be purchased at the cassa inside.  A little study of the Cyrillic alphabet makes it easier to use the metro.  Figure out how many stations your trip takes as it is impossible to see the station signs from inside the cars and the Russian station announcements too quiet to grasp.;5;March 20, 2017
Amazing Moscow Metro!;As a Muscovite myself I use Moscow Metro almost every day and can't help admuring its station. As a guide, I'm also aware of the fact it is also so much about Soviet History, and not just about Soviet architecture/decorative arts. Moscow Metro is about Lenin and Stalin, the Great Patriotic War, dreams of common people... I'd recommend any tourist to have at least 1,5-2 hours to see at least the most famous stations. To my mind, Komsomolskaya (Ring line) is the best to represent the Soviet era.;5;March 19, 2017
Easy to use;The rail system only costs 55 Rubles a trip. The signs made it easy to work out which trains to catch with information booths set up if you need them.;4;March 19, 2017
Gorgeous!;We spent a whole day of our vacation purposefully getting to know the Metro system.  We made a game out of finding the Top 10 Metro stations listed in the "Eyewitness Travel" guide.  Despite not knowing Russian, we were able to figure it all out.  Several of the stations really are works of art and well worth seeing.  For the price of one Metro ticket, you can spent the day underground and see as many as you want!;4;March 19, 2017
Easy to use;The Metro is amazing and simple to use network. We got lost a couple of times but were able to sort ourselves out without too much fuss. Some of the stations are a sight to behold. You really need to spend a half day travelling the loop to get off/on and look at some of the stations. The design is unbelievable. Gettting around Moscow is very simple on the Metro - use it! It's 210 rub for a day pass with unlimited usage. Very reasonable.;5;March 19, 2017
One of the world's great metros - quite unique;Many of the stations are elaborately decorated - wide corridors, chandeliers, multi coloured mosaics, bronze statuettes, brightly painted walls. The decorations depict life in soviet times and victories in the great battles of of the world wars and earlier against the French.;5;March 19, 2017
Exceptional!!!;You haven't seen a thing in Moscow if you don't see the metro!!!! It's an open gallery!!! So elegant and beautiful!!;5;March 18, 2017
Beautiful stations;Easy to follow with both English and Russian maps so download one of them 200rp for the day go on an adventure;5;March 17, 2017
A real surprise;Forget the great stations around, the system is fast, clean and reliable .. better and faster than taxis, beats the crazy traffic but takes a few days getting used to. When you do.. brilliant!!;5;March 17, 2017
It's rather like an art gallery!;It is very beautiful with stunning paintings. It is rather like an art gallery than metro station! Each station has different architecture and so different beauty. In my opinion the Kievskaya is the most attractive one as there is a picture of Lenin. Also the elevators by which you can go down, runs too fast. The trains are so old and make loudly noise. It doesn't smell good inside of the stations.  Metro lines have been spread all over Moscow (in spider shape) which make it easy to commute there with low price and fast as the next train arrives in less than 2 mins. In Moscow where ever you are, in which direction you walk, within 15 mins you'll get a metro station!!;5;March 17, 2017
The most beautiful in the world;First of all, it is very deep under the ground.I did not take an excursion. Just checked in the internet the most interesting stations and the history, marked it on the map and went down ))) And I had to get only an entrance ticket for the regular ride );4;March 16, 2017
Just Amazing!;Each station had a unique architecture and design. They were like museums and galleries full of paintings, mosaics and sculptures. The trains also were fast and in time.;5;March 16, 2017
Once you get the hang of it .... AMAZING!!;400 Russian Rubles for a 3 day pass. This includes the metro, buses, trams and trolleybuses. Excellent value for money and saves queuing to buy tickets to places I'm never going to be able to pronounce. The metro map is easy to use, laid out similar to the London Underground map - it even has a circle line!. Once you have got to grips with that, marvel at the fantastic architecture on view. Most of these stations are on line 5 (which is the brown circle line) and are just amazing. The metro runs between every 90 seconds and every 3 minutes all day every day. We felt safe at all times whilst on the Moscow Metro and is the easiest way to get around this amazing city.;5;March 16, 2017
Metro;The Metro system may be old ,but it is changing ,service is excellent ,all areas are very clean ,plenty of Metro Staff for advice and cheap at 60 pence per journeyThe infrustucture is excellent with Marble walls Same as London but cleaner and more efficientBe careful as the escalators are very steep in places,but there is a supervisor at the foot of each stairway;5;March 16, 2017
Moscow metro is an amazing place;The ticket price is very cheap and one should definitely check the architecture of each station within the city center!;5;March 15, 2017
A must see- Easier with a guide;The Moscow Metro is a must see. Started by Stalin in the 1930s, no two stations look the same. There's beautiful architecture as well as fascinating Soviet statues, designs and symbols. You can pay 50 Rubles for one ticket which allows you to travel the train and visit the various historical stations. As long as you don't exit the station, one ticket can get you around and back again. We visited the Metro with a local, but if you don't have such luck I would suggest doing some research beforehand on which stations to see and how to get there or even maybe going on a  pod tour (although the ones I found were very expensive considering the cost of the Metro ticket!). Don't leave Moscow without seeing at least one of the historic stations.;5;March 15, 2017
Moscow M;Moscow Metro is good to use, beautiful artworks at stations, very efficient,the train come every 2 minutes but very crowded , few of pickpockets are also working, as usual in Russia that have a lot of tourists and people (pickpockets have to work too)it a very good way to get around moscow;4;March 14, 2017
Super easy to get around and the stations are filled with history;Buy the Metro ticket and travel around Moscow.  The layout reminds me of the Atlanta Metro system.  SImple to get around and easy to get to where you want to go.The trains arrive at the station about every 60 seconds.;5;March 14, 2017
The most magnificent metro in the world;I never thought I would visit a metro as a tourist attraction, but the Moscow Metro is certainly the most beautiful metro in the world. Make sure to get a local or a guide to take you to the best stations.;5;March 14, 2017
So pretty!;Living in NYC, you really appreciate the Metros especially when they are so ornate and clean! This should be on everyone's list as they were beautiful!;5;March 13, 2017
Moscow Metro;We managed the metro successfully even with luggage.  It is safe, reliable and very cheap.  All the carriages we travelled in were spotlessly clean;5;March 13, 2017
Make sure you rub the nose of the bronze dog for luck;Make sure to pay a visit to the Ploschad revolutsii metro station  (Revolution square) not only do you get to see the Red Square and spend all your money at the famous GUM dept.store as you get out of the station you also get to ensure that good luck follows you if you rub the nose of the bronze dog as you get off the metro train.;5;March 13, 2017
Underground museum;Many people had told me to visit the Moscow metro. They were right.If you know the London tube you know how small it is. Paris and New York, let's discuss another time....But Moscow! Wow!  Vast hallways and stunningly decorated.It is worth a visit just for that, not just a means of transport.Oh, and even the traintickets look great.Spasibo Moscow!;5;March 13, 2017
Actually really great;I travelled to red square in Moscow by metro and was surprised to see no seating I learned why since a train arrives almost non stop so no time to sit down.The architecture was really nice certainly it is much nicer than my cities train stations in my city ! The carriages were fairly old and noisy but fast or at least it seemed so the wifi on the train is cool but not very fast but over all it was an experience and even though it was not a uxorious trip it was fast and and got me to where I was going surely this is the point of this metro,Moscow is a massive city and is spread out unlike my own city that is all crammed into a area on the coast (Sydney) The fact is if you need to get a long way in Moscow train is the way to go I am impressed by the amount of available public transport there one is never left waiting for long.If you are like me and prefer to do non touristy things this will serve you well its good to be among the people part of the experience well to me anyway;5;March 12, 2017
Greatest people moving system I have ever seen;I have been in subways in NYC (native), Milan, Rome, Dusseldorf, Chicago, and London - this subway is the greatest and most efficient people moving system I have ever seen. So it is very useful and affordable for getting around town - I don't think I have ever waited more than 5 minutes for a train. Then you add the architecture & decor of most of the stations, and it is a sightseeing event in and of itself. (Most of the stuff in the station would grow feet and walk in NYC, or be covered in graffiti.);5;March 12, 2017
Looks more daunting than it is;The Moscow metro,  like all big city networks, looks daunting for the first day. But once you get the hang of the lines and interchanges it's a brilliant and incredibly cheap way to get around the entire city. Grab a map, don't be afraid to point at your destination and ask the staff for help, and jump into it You'll learn a little Cyrillic at the same time. The maps have incredibly small type so if you're of a certain age , just find an information desk at one of the stations and ask for a bigger one. In short, it's  safe and easy and no need for cabs.;5;March 11, 2017
A Must See;A must see experience. Worth searching out the stations with the best decor - everything from chandeliers and stained glass to statues and wall plaques, often with a Soviet or other historical theme - then do your own little tour as we did.Watch you step if you dont speak/read Russian and avoid the rush hour;4;March 11, 2017
Very posh train stations!;We bought a day ticket for 4 aud. Got on and off at random stations. The stations are very ornate with various statues and chandeliers. A must for anyone wanting a good walk around Moscow.;5;March 11, 2017
Historical and Great;The experience was great. It's worth, specially if you are interested in Russian history and you have a local guide. Be careful not to lose your expensive belongings, since the place is pretty crowded.;5;March 11, 2017
////////// excellent \\\\\\\\\;that's awesome . The greatness of a work by Russian engineers. I admire. Try to see all the stations. Take  photos of  stone's drawings. Make your most beautiful moments . you will feel the Russian superpower . Be careful about the signs. Because they are not in English. be happy .;5;March 10, 2017
A must !!;In the small circle of the metro each station is a special treat ! From the light fixtures to the art and statues , you just can't keep your mouth closed by the beauty ! Very very clean!!!;5;March 10, 2017
Truly amazing;We could have spent all day just hopping off and on every stop to admire the extraordinary metro stations. So many are incredibly ornate. I think it was Taganskaya where we discovered (on our final day) a wonderful counter staffed by friendly (English speaking - which helped) ladies where one could obtain loads of info about the Metro. We were already veterans of the Metro but our son was pleased to be able to purchase a unique souvenir T-shirt. Each journey is sooo cheap - 35 roubles no matter how far you travel. If you just hop on/off to explore and take photos without actually exiting the station it will only cost you one trip to  enjoy many hours of treasures.;5;March 10, 2017
Spectacular engineering and architectural brilliance;Travellers rave about the Metro. I must agree the Art Deco splendour is grand. If you like columns and marble you won't be disappointed. I trip is 55 rubles. One trip is one entry and exit. That is if you travelled all day and never exited it only costs 55 rubles.I recommend buying a day ticket for 210 rubles. Buy it from a human and not a machine. As the attendant is likely only to speak Russian ask your concierge or friend to write down for you requesting a daily ticket. Every time I showed the attendant they smiled. I like value experiences. This is second to the star ferry in Hong Kong.;5;March 10, 2017
Beautifully designed;I was only travelling around moscow as part of a layover, and I used the metro to travel around. It was easy enough to use, and I had great help with the Moscow Metro App, which consists of simply the map. However, as there was no English at the stations, I took metro towards the wrong direction several times, which was not a great inconvenience as the train frequency was very high. The only thing is, the trains do not stop for a long time so always be prepared when you board and alight.;4;March 9, 2017
Really a underground Museum.;We visited around 6 stations, they are around 20 in the list that a tourist has to visit, for us 5 or 6 were enough. I highly recommend to visit the line 5, brown color, it is circular, in the same line you can visit 4 spectacular stations, and if you still have stamina you can continue visit other stations in other lines. You will need a map  in English, the cirillyc alphabet is not easy at all to understand, also it  is difficult to be oriented sometimes, there are a lot of security, and the policeman guide you, they do not speak English or almost nothing. I took us around 45 minutes to see the 5 stations.;5;March 9, 2017
Amazing stations;Don't be put off by language and difficulty in understanding station names. We had a map and matched stations up with our map and no problem getting around. It was fun actually to successfully navigate such a different subway language. Plus people stopped offering help as we were poring over map.Even though it was after midday  still a lot of people traveling and sometimes we would seem to get in people's way.So many wonderful stations, we even just looked out the window at a few. As the trains are so frequent it is perfect to get off, take a look around get back on next train.Discovered a day later a red circle on the floor designated as a station selfie spot! Gutted I missed that on my tour.This could take a lot longer than you think so be prepared.  So many amazing sights, loved watching locals patting the dog at I think was revolutionary square.Well worth doing, but tiring after so many stairs!! Comfie shoes and don't over dress as hot down there.;5;March 8, 2017
Moscow Metro;The Moscow metro is quick, clean, warm and cheap. The stations are very beatifull and they all have a theam. You must have a good map because it's all in Russian language.;5;March 6, 2017
Ask your hotel to circle their choice of must see stations.;Ask your hotel to circle their favourites, ask the station guards ditto, the Russians are helpful and sign language works. This way you see stations not normally on the tourist trail . Most are splendid so just get lost and jump off when you see one you want to photograph.  Tips station names have a dot in the colour of their line. Get a map in the Russian language. European maps are useless, all signs are in the Russian alphabet,;5;March 6, 2017
A beautiful metro to visit.;I had seen several photos of the Moscow metro but visiting the stations was simply a AMAZING tour. In each of them, I found different styles of architecture, beautiful marble and unique details. DON'T MISS IT!!;5;March 5, 2017
Scenic railway!!!;Another must; be prepared to get lost! I recommend you study 1) cyrillic alphabet and 2) the subway map; people are nice with foreigners but not very good at speaking English. Some stops are worth half-an-hour visit. Loud speakers tell the name of the stops, pay attention;5;March 2, 2017
A bit of a nightmare!;Nothing is written in English for tourists so beware! Make sure you research your stations you need to visit before you get on the tube and make a note of what the stations are called in Russian so you can easily identify the name when you are using it. Otherwise, the tube is very clean and spacious!;3;March 2, 2017
Absolute must for anyone visiting Moscow;Where else can you visit world class history and art museum never mind a super functional metro system for a token price of less than a buck.  Avoid rush hour so make sure you are there around mid day or later at night - super safe.;5;March 1, 2017
One of the best metro in the world. And not just for its efficacy;As I mentioned in title, is one of the best metro in the world, both for its efficacy (trains departs every 30 second during rush hours) and beacause of its beauty. You can go for 55 rubles to any part of moscow, as it has many connections. You may take half a day to see just metro if you want. My favourites stations Kurskaya, Ploschad Revolutsii, Biblioteka Lenina.;5;March 1, 2017
You must Visit the Metro if in Moscow;I took a tour with a fun young tour guide that showed me all the most famous metro stops. The entire tour took about 90 minutes and was so interesting. The metro stops were built to be the 'People's Palaces' as Lenin said and they are something to see. Each stop is ornate and clean and filled with history.  The trains run like every two minutes from each stop. One of the largest and most populated metro systems in the world. Don't miss it if you're in Moscow!;5;February 27, 2017
Peculiar;Each station is unique, sometimes basic and simple sometimes luxurious. For the very nice one you regret the size of it, but after all it's all driven by length of the underground wagon convoy.;4;February 27, 2017
Uplifting sculptured with dressed women;My biggest revelation happened watching the bronze scultptures at Revolution Square. Almost 50% female representation, and equal in importance and degree of clothing. A female and male student, farmer, parent, hunter, in pairs showing equal importance. A male sailor next to a female paratrooper. I realized how hard is is in most of Europe to find any public sculptures of women representing their vocation, or even any female with clothes on.There were also huge sculptures of female war heroes. Named. With clothes on.;5;February 26, 2017
Have map, can travel easily;The Moscow Metro is very easy to navigate --- even if you don't read Russian, if you just bring a map with you and pay attention to the stops you'll have no difficulty.  If you have time, I'd recommend just riding the train and getting off at various stops just to see the amazingly beautiful depots.  They are unlike anything you'll expect --- there is artwork and decor that will just make your eyes pop.;5;February 26, 2017
Must see in Moscow;I never miss the opportunity to see more stations. It's a must see if you visiting Moscow. Although the station names are all in Russian. Each line is colored and numbered. It's cheap and efficient and safe. Cost about 50pence per ride. Just go to ticket office. Say 1, 2,3,4 fingers to buy each journey I recommend you take the brown circle line. Stop at each station and take pictures and enjoy. Enjoy;4;February 26, 2017
Language barrier;The first day when we arrived at Moscow metro, we felt really intimidated by the lack of English words. After the first ride, we felt that the language barrier did make understanding the capital a little harder, it actually brought us to a new level of learning. I was wrong to assume that the map I printed online is sufficient. Please remember to take a photo of the metro map at the platform. This map is the only one with English and Russian. All announcement is in Russian. The words are very different from English. Most trains do not indicate the English name of the stations. The cheapest way to travel on metro is to buy bulk purchase tickets. We 20 tickets for 20 rides for RUB650, i.e. RUB32.50 per ride instead of the usual RUB50.;5;February 26, 2017
Beats all other metros;It's a pretty magnificent place to see. I'm from NY and the subways are a gutter compared to this. It's known for its famed chandeliers and marble floors and its efficiency. Definitely worth the visit.;5;February 25, 2017
well organized metro;used the metro in Moscow in February, metro and the buildings are comfortable warm, transportation is cheap and efficient. Definitely something to experience in Moscow;4;February 25, 2017
Well functioning metro;Very well functioning metro. Easy to get around and takes no time. It's an amazing metro, and beautiful decorations.But would be a big plus if they had more English signs for tourists.;5;February 24, 2017
This is a pure work of art!;After the fashion of some other reviews I will venture to sort out the pros and cons of visiting the Moscow Metro based on my own expirience. I live a short way from our capital so I've been there many a time.Pros:1. Every station has its own absolutely astounding architecture and design that reflect the era it was built in. 2. Moscovites are busy but still very friendly people who are always ready to help. One thing you must remember though...like every megapolis, Moscow is full of people coming from all over the world, so sometimes it's not that easy to find a local who could help you out. 3. There're unique in their appearance/design and generally very interesting trains, they are called themed trains and are dedicated to certain events or things. For example, there was the New Year train covered in New Year decorations, there're military history themed trains, there was also the Shakespearean Passions Train...you should know that trains like that come and go...(sounds like a pun and it is)...and in trains like that, the upcoming stations are usually voiced in a special way. I remember going by a train that had something to do with kids and the stations were voiced by little kids and it was painted in a silly-kiddy style. Very cute though.4. It's a clean and neat place that is well secured by cops so...no panic;)5. You don't have to wait for your train for like 30 mins or so, they come every 2 mins on the average. During the rush hours even more frequently: like every 90 secs. So if a train is full you don't have to ask somebody to help you cram into the overcrowded train. No need to do that. You just stay there for a while and wait for the next one to come and if you're lucky you may even catch one of those mysterious, themed trains.Cons:1. It's the busiest metro system outside Asia which means a massive torrent of commuters running/flying in all directions possible, especially in those rush hours and it's especially the case with some stations like Komsomolskaya (even though it's a beautiful station that's definitely worth a visit).So if you're not willing to take your photos in a crowdy place, visit it in the evening.2. It's deep, most stations are approximately 50 meters underground. The deepest one is Park Pobedy (it's 85 meters deep). So it may take a few mins before you actually get to the platform. No panic.3. Many signs are in Russian only but the Metro official web site provides most crucial and up to date information in English. Also, you can buy a special metro map or even take one for free if you're lucky to find it (check out the info points, as far as I remember there's one on the Ring Line).4. Most upcoming stations are announced in Russian but , unless I'm mistaken, those on the Ring Line are dubbed in English.;5;February 24, 2017
wow;i was blown away by this underground system. Not only is it highly efficient , trains every few minutes, plenty of information and spotless. But the point that sticks out most are the beautiful Metro stations. words cannot describe them, they are like cathedrals and palaces underground. They are a must see while in Moscow.;5;February 24, 2017
The people's palace;If you ever get the chance to visit Moscow, don't forget to spend some enough time in the people's palace!Yes, that's what they rightfully call Moscow's Metro and without doubt, some of the stations on this people's palace are the most beautiful and glorious metro stations you have ever seen in your life! In some of these stations, you hardly believe you are in a metro station and tend to think you are walking through the halls of a prestigious palace.You will find most of these stations on lines 1, 2, 3 and 5. So, whatever you do in Moscow, just don't miss the chance of visiting some of these spectacular metro stations.;5;February 23, 2017
Felt like I am in 1980;The best and wonderful experience. Escalators, Wah!!!! The feel: Just awesome.... Liked the ride by Metro to Red Square.;5;February 22, 2017
Must see;Everyone knows that when we are talking about Russia there is a underground palace which is called metro. Here are a few wonderful stations to check:1) Mayakovskaya (line 2)2) Ploschad' Revoluzii (line 3)3) Arbatskaya (line 3)4) Kievskkaya (line 3, 5)5) Komsomolskaya (line 5)Good luck dear travellers :);5;February 22, 2017
Must see these beautiful stations;Moscow city immersed in the constant traffic jams, hence, it is best to travel using the metro. Tickets for two-way for an adult is 110 Rubble (almost USD1.80) any distance. The metro system is known for its efficiency and speed. Some stations are beautifully decorated, like an underground luxury hotel ballroom, complete with crystal chandeliers. Some of the stations that must visit is Novoslobodskaya station, Mayakovskaya, Ploshchad Revolutsii, Kievskaya and Komsomolskaya. The metro stations double up as underground shelter during the war. The first metro line is Sokolnicheskaya, built in 1935, therefore, most of the stations do not have escalators. All instructions and directions are in Russian and the station names were written in Cyrillic.  We were a bit confused and chaotic at first, however, after several rides, we could figure out and understood their system.;4;February 20, 2017
True style;I'm used to being wowed by fancy, high-tech subway systems.  This was the first time that happened to an "old" subway systems.  The Moscow metro  is indeed a destination in itself.  Clearly the designers and builders took great pride in their work and should.  The artwork and architecture in the system really tell the city's story.  That the city managed to merge the old with the new is quite amazing.;5;February 20, 2017
Simply the most beautiful Underground in the world!;If you travel to Moscow it is a crime not to visit it's underground for experience of a lifetime. Never in the world has the underground been realised with such grandeur and artistic approach. The 10 million daily commuters rarely take an opportunity to enjoy the surroundings and take it for granted happy to utilise it just as an effective transportation system. But you must spake a couple of minutes to appreciate each station as a masterpiece of art and architechture. Most of the circle line stations and stations within (central) are worth a stop. Specific stations to visit you may investigate elsewhere on the web. Mayakovskaya is a must for its unique mosaic ceiling and Ploshad Ilyicha for incredible set of sculptures. Rub the dog's nose (you will see which one) for luck. The navigation is relatively simple and much of it now doubed into English. Central stations also have information booths. You pay for entry and for single 50rub ticket you can enjoy it all. Great recent development - all ticket offices got equiped with credit card machines, which makes it very convinient for travellers (do not expect the ticket lady to speak English, just use sign language). Avoid peak hours (8-10am and 5-8pm) at all cost :) Unless you are looking for a wild experience. Enjoy and mind the pickpoceters!;5;February 20, 2017
The most beautiful subway in the world;Most of the stations of Moscow subway are the real unique placesIn order to get acquainted to Moscow metro I recommend to visit just some of them : Novislobodskaya, Maykovskaja, Komsomolskaja and Ploshad RevolutsiiThe last one is famous for its monuments And if you wanna get luck touch the dog's nose;5;February 20, 2017
Great and cheap way to get around moscow;Line 3 is especially beautiful but the system itself is cheap, clean, safe and easy to use. A good way to get around moscow.;4;February 20, 2017
Really impressive Metro;It is well decorated and desgned Metro that i have ever seen.Some stations looks like a art gallery. some stations are very deep from the entrance. Metro in St, Petersburg was really beautiful and fantastic. I strongly recommend 1.5 hour or 2 hour metro tour in Moscow and St. Petersburg.;5;February 20, 2017
Not just an underground!;The Moscow Metro is a thing of great beauty... a must visit if you are in the city. The mosaics, sculptures and engravings are worthy of being in any art gallery and you would never know you are in an underground. Slightly difficult to navigate if you are English as no signs are translated and the train always announces the next stop as your approaching the previous station.;4;February 19, 2017
Lovely;Definitely the Moscow metro is one of the fanciest i ve ever seen.Its stunning!! Big lamps that reminded  me to the 19century. Always clean and signs everywhere. The only "bad" thing: almost everything is in russian no english but young speak english so you only have to catch one in good mood. If you dont want to use it you can enter to some pics and admire the structure;5;February 19, 2017
Useful;Very useful, like in most cities. However, it really helps if you speak Russian or can at least decipher the Cyrillic. Just saying.;4;February 18, 2017
Museum under the ground!;Really very attractive treasure of Moscow is the old metro stations - nice and very expensive design. You can make the best photos of your life. The mast places to visit in Moscow!;5;February 18, 2017
Moscow's Circulatory System;It is always an adventure riding the Metro. Will you get one of the specially decorated trains, will you get a seat and sometimes the chance to hear some locals selling things or looking for charity. Definitely the fastest way to travel and some of the stations are architecturally stunning with mosaics and frescos worthy of a place in an art gallery. Often crowded stations and trains but that should not deter you. A must do is to stop at Revolutionary Square and rub the nose of the bronze dog or parts of the other bronzes on display here.;4;February 18, 2017
Take your time, ride as many trains as possible!;This was one of the best things I did in Moscow.  The metro is cheap to ride, like 50 rubles, and you can ride as long as you want and stop at all of the unique stations.  They are all so different and incredibly beautiful.  There was obviously a lot of money used in the building of these stations and I would consider them to be the most beautiful in the world.  They have different themes and even the trains have different themes.  Around Christmas you may even be lucky enough to see the Christmas train!;5;February 17, 2017
A wonderful experienc visually and practically;Never seen such care to the interior of underground stations. And so efficient with trains every 2 minutes. Therefore even when busy, no one needs to push and rush;5;February 17, 2017
Fast and cultural;Taking the metro in Moscow gives you not only the possibility to move fast around in different places of the city, it gives you also an inside view of the monumental sovjet culture, deep down, 100 meters below. A must.;5;February 17, 2017
But the Right ticket and it great;Really interesting Metro system. The trains are old,  as are the Metro stations but the stations have class, the trains less so. Great architecture, lighting and brass figures.  Easy and safe to get around although impossible in a wheel chair or with walking disabilities.  Fast, regular and on time trains.  Clean and at times busy Metro stations. Best to work out your travel arrangements and select the right travel ticket.  We bought the 90 day, 15 ride ticket for our 5 day trip and still had rides unused. Some signs are in English which makes getting around easier.  There are excellent tube maps (get in advance or at the airport in the tourist magazines) and even with the station names being in Russian it is fairly easy to find your way around.  Don't be put off the Metro is safe and easy to use.;4;February 17, 2017
One of the world's best Subway.;Being from Toronto there is no comparison to this Metro and the TTC. This one is faster, cleaner, cheaper and much better run. Highly recommended especially when the traffic is very bad.;4;February 17, 2017
Must experience;very interesting to see.  both practical and artistic with many national graphics, preserved in history;5;February 17, 2017
nice!;I took the metro and walked through many of the stations and I only can say... WOW these russians really knew how to build amazing train stations;5;February 16, 2017
Underneath Moscow;Using the underground is fairly easy, most signs are Russian and English I was fortunate and had a natural Russian speaker guiding me through.  The stations are amazing to see even if you are not travelling on the metro. I found we had to go through a lot of metal detectors and there are many police and security guards which gave a sense of security  although I saw no problems. Most of Moscow uses the Metro so try and avoid peak times its extremely busy then. Stations themselves are spotless and I think the underground staff deserve a grateful Thanks.The stations themselves are a work of art and some stations are very deep underground.;5;February 16, 2017
Ride the subway!;Another must do in Moscow. Easy, convent, and gorgeous. The brown line offers some of the best stops of all. You'll need at least 3 - 4 hours to do this properly, but worth every ruble!;5;February 16, 2017
More than transport;Are we in a museum, gallery, library, or in public transport. Take a ticket, and go somewhere. No words to explain. Special excursions are available with stops on the most important stations with guide.;5;February 16, 2017
A terrible time;Recently I encountered the Moscow Metro. I found it both very difficult and confusing especially with no English language available. Additionally, the many steps required to go up / down when carrying luggage needed for a 4 day stopover for a seminar I needed to attend, increased the frustration.;1;February 15, 2017
Cheap, efficient and quick. A MUST.;Download a free Metro map and it will be helpful to have the cyrillic alphabet app too. A ride to anywhere was under 50 cents USD. Each station is a museum with chandeliers, paintings, and statues. This is the best way to get around Moscow with trains running all the time and system is easy to figure out. Lines are by color and stops listed inside each car.;5;February 15, 2017
Nice and Massive!;This metro subway is far more impressive than any that I've visited thus far. It is like a feeling you are into the quake proof tunnel so deep underground with very steep escalator leading you from the bottom to the top exit points. One thing you must bear in mind that unless you are fluent to understand Russian as there are absolutely none other than Russian written here. Trying to remember the station names is not the absolute way to get into your ways to your destination. Well as the saying goes, world is at your mouth and Russians are generally nice peoples would try their effort to show you the correct way even not many of them speak English. Recommend a must experience visit!;4;February 15, 2017
Interior worth of a palace;It is very deep underground. Most remarkable are the frescoes and decorations of the centrally located stations.;5;February 15, 2017
A MUST SEE. SUCH A WONDERFUL GIFT TO THE PEOPLE OF RUSSIA;Being a tourist that didn't have and Russian language experience these stations were easy to get to and understand. I travelled the metro with ease looking at these beautiful stations.  I googled the best ones to see then got a map a and marked them out.  The trains are so regular you can get off one take your photos then when you are done the next train is coming.  They are very regular, every couple of minutes.;5;February 14, 2017
Each ststion is unique;Each staion is grandly unique! Enjoyed the opulance of many stations with their paitings , chandeliers, murals & many art works. Spotless although  bustling with commuters.;5;February 14, 2017
Moscow metro: translatory Brownian motion;I like the Moscow metro as it's still the best way to travel through the rapidly growing city. I like the speed an the so-called light metro. 30 years ago it was a great pleasure to travel by metro. Now, after a number of novelties by Moscow mayor, Sergey Sobyanin, it lost some initial unique details. E.g. on entering the station you often have to pass through narrow entries on reading the advert "very soon it will be clean and nice here". Sometimes this "very soon" may last up to 6 months. The scarce attempts to bilingual announcements (Russian - English) seems very awkward: the frequent passengers are mostly from former Asian republics of the USSR and don't speak English. The new stations look like each other and don't attract tourists as before...To see origin Moscow metro travel early Sunday or Saturday morning through the Circle line, enjoy Novoslobodskaya with its great mosaics and other stations. To admire the wonderful ceilings see Mayakovskaya and to pay tribute to communist sculpture - Ploshad Revolutsii. Keep this impressions and try not to spoil them with some cheap novelties you'll surely come across.;4;February 14, 2017
Impressive;There are old and modern stations, but they are all very nice. Old ones are pieces of art! Must see in Moscow!;5;February 13, 2017
Metro;It's far from the only impressive sight on the Russian capital's underground network - as the following photographs show...;5;February 11, 2017
Famous all over the world;One of the oldest and magnificent metros in the world, specially Kiyevskaya, Mayakovskaya, Prospekt Mira and Dostoyevskaya metro stations;5;February 9, 2017
It takes you to places!;We used the metro everywhere in Moscow. The system fuction very well and take away the stress of "finding a place to park!"I was even able to meet people, talk, share great moments. Very safe for sure.;5;February 8, 2017
Subway like no other;Well all I can say is that this subway beats anything I have ever seen.The stations are works of art and the train schedule is very two minutes. It is a must just to experience it. And the young will give up their seat for the elderly.;4;February 8, 2017
possibly the most interesting thing in Moscow;Moscow underground is extremely deep underground, for two concentric reasons: first because it has to run underneath the meandering river and second because it was intended to be used as a giant shelter in case the westerners were to drop nuclear bombs over Russia. In fact the Russian were at least as scared on their neighbor as we were in the West. Interesting, isn’t it?Moreover, the Metro was the object of the people’s pride and the Soviet government’s. So the stations are huge, also due to the fact the unlike London and Paris, in Moscow the trains run at the of the station, which makes the stations spacious and airy. Not claustrophobic as London.The stations were designed and decorated by the best artists, and have different themes (all national popular to the greater glory of the Party).The most monumental stations are the ones on the Koltsevaya line, or circle line. I strongly suggest to take the time to make a full loop of this line, exiting the train at every station. They are all different and all extremely attractive.;5;February 8, 2017
Just great;It is not necessary to write about the grandeur of the metro stations, actually in some cases rather mini-palaces, but we were amazed by the cleanliness, efficiency and perfect organisation. And also by the helpfulness of the Moscovites! Thanks a million!;5;February 7, 2017
Huge;Perhaps this Subway was thought to shelter people during the war. To get on the platform, there are some stations that reach the escalators going down dozens of meters, 2 minutes !!! Each station is different and some are even decorated like works of art. It is a very convenient means of transport but as convenience and price. Are you overwhelmed when you see thousands of travelers as an anthill but the time between trains is very short and not have to wait very long.;4;February 6, 2017
Best way to move around in Moscow.;Metro station in Moscow is the best way to get from one place to another! Easy access and very easy to understand the way each line connect to the other. Some of the stations are so old but still very well maintained and are just a piece of art. Each station is differently decorated so try to visit as many as possible... By issuing this Troyka(troeka) card you can just credit some money in it and use it without having to wait in lines for tickets plus you get an extra discount on the ticket price by using the card. Only defect is that all the signs are only in Cyrillic alphabet.;5;February 5, 2017
Stunning;What an impressive display of variety and style! Each station boasted its own decor based a historic time or place in Moscow. If you are familiar with other subway systems in London, Paris, or the states, I guarantee you've seen nothing like this. Wish the people were friendlier - because it is swarming with commuters while you are viewing . . .;5;February 5, 2017
Legend;If you are a foreigner it's an absolute must see. I've been to many metro and you can't compare it to anything. I'd recommend you Ploschad Revolutsii, Mayakovskaya, Komsomolskaya and Arbatskaya, but other station inside the circle ring are very good to. I'd also recommend you to use metro instead of taxi for short trips.  It is beautiful and safe and really fast (trains come almost every minute in rush hour). You can save hours in traffic.;5;February 5, 2017
Masterpiece!!!!;Every metro station is a architectural masterpiece. Quick trains coming and going in one minute frequency.;5;February 5, 2017
Fascinating Metro System in Moscow;We had a tour guide when we visited Moscow in December 2016. She was very knowledgeable on the history of the construction and art work inside the levels of the metro system, She took us to most all of the levels at various stops and described the motif of that station, it's origin and its political significance. Without a thorough tour we would still have appreciated how beautiful the underground in Moscow is, but we might not have seen how different it is in so many stations and understood the significance and history behind the design of each. The mosaics and design of the art and lamps at every level are stunning! A fascinating network of travel for the people and at the same time an affective reminder of the propaganda of the time during communism.;5;February 5, 2017
A must see;Buy a ticket, get a map, do some homework on the best and get off at every station platform - you will not be disappointed.  The mosaics & stained glass are truly beautiful.    Don't be scared to stop - the locals will just walk around you;5;February 4, 2017
A must see in Moscow!!!;Although we toured the Metro on our own, what an amazing, cheap discovery!  A great way to spend a cold or rainy few hours - unbelievable beauty - able to take it all in without feeling rushed!;5;February 4, 2017
A Museum of Russian decorative arts and architecture;This is not just a means of transportation - this is a museum. You can trace the development of the country and architectural styles in the metro stations. My favorite are Belorusskaya, Pushkinskaya, Mayakovskaya and Ploshad Revolutsii.;5;February 3, 2017
Became less crowded vs a year ago;After Moscow Central Ring trains were introduced in end 2016, less of crowds inside is visible. So it became better.;5;February 3, 2017
One of the great features of Moscos;Amazing system, justly famous, incredible stations. Worth a visit. Not so easy without knowing Russian letters but more and more in English letters, and people will help you. and well worth it, especially in the center of the city.;5;February 2, 2017
works of art;You do not need to do this with an organised tour..  The metro is easy to negotiate once you have worked it out.  I think it is simpler than the London underground.  You need to make sure you have both an English and Russian metro map.  Google the stations as it tells you which ones are better to visit and it gives you some information about them.The only value with having a tour is more the information the guide can give you about the art work but if you can find that online then you are set to explore on your own.  It is well worth the effort of doing and the cost is minimal.  You pay to get onto the metro and it doesn't matter how long or how far you go as long as you do not exit the metro station you can keep jumping on and off the trains all day.;5;February 1, 2017
Each metro station is a stunning work of art;I love travelling on the Moscow metro. Convenient and cheap. You can purchase a ticket for 2 rides from the machine, or 20 rides from the counter, depending how often will you need to use them. It lasts for 6 months. Most of the metro stations are each uniquely designed with ornate ceilings and beautiful decoration.;5;January 31, 2017
Very Clean, Artistic with Free Wifi on Central Round Line (Kolcevaya);The only metro I've got to see in my lifetime is Moscow metro, metro in Saint Petersburg, Washington DC, New York & San Francisco). Moscow metro is my favorite for free WiFi, architecture & art. Otherwise, Washington DC would take the 2nd place for keeping it clean.;5;January 30, 2017
metro tour;well worthe the effort to visit a selection of stations as they are all a work of arr ticket 55 RUB  so very cheap;5;January 30, 2017
Moscow Metro;This place will blow you away.  Clean, efficient, pleasant.  The halls are adorned with art.   Far different and much mor pleasant than riding metro systems in most other cities across the globe.  Just do it for the experience even if you have no place to go.;5;January 30, 2017
The Metro is a must see in Moscow!!;I lived in Moscow back in the 90's and I took the Metro (Underground) almost every day. It is very convenient, fast and many stations downtown are basically museums. How do you choose which stations to go to? I'd say just go to the Revolution Square (Ploschad' Revolyuciyi) station and start exploring the adjacent stations. By the way this station is right behind the GUM store on the Red Square. So, once you're at the Revolution Square station, you'll have access to two more stations, as part of the interchange. Then you can go to the Pushkin (Pushkinskaya) station, which is also a 3 station interchange, then head to Alexander Garden (Aleksandorvskiy Sad) station, which is a 4 station interchange. And maybe go to the Tret'yakov station, which is a 3 station interchnage. All of these stations are within 1 station from each other and you only have to pay once when you enter the Metro, which is about $1 if you buy one ticket. If you buy a 20 ride pass, each ride will cost about $0.60. So these stations will cover the basics, after which you can go anywhere you want and explore.;5;January 30, 2017
Best mean of transportation;I always use metro when in Moscow. It can be crowded during rush hour. Especially Ring (brown) line, but try it after 10pm. My absolute favorite stations are Mayakovskaya and Aeroport (green line), Kievskaya (ring/brown line), Ploschad Revoliuciyi (blue line).Look not only around you but also above you. And don't forget to bring your camera;5;January 29, 2017
A unique metro system which is worth a visit;Moscow Metro is an underground railway system which is worth a visit by any foreigner.   The marble structure of the metro stations with plenty of crystal lighting and metal and wood fittings made the whole metro system a unique and huge underground series of buildings with rich history and antiquity.   You could also go to touch the brass sculptures of soldiers, dogs, roosters ... in one of the major station to see if that would bring you good luck in the way that some local Russians believe.  Not dissimilar to their counterparts in London, the railways and the train compartments are old but they do look operationally sound and safe.  Security measures are also inb place for every passenger entering the Moscow Metro station to take a train.;4;January 28, 2017
Huge and historical stations with a beautiful architecture, unusual designs and with a fine service. Good experience.;Moscow has a lot of impressive metro stations due to its beautiful  architecture, unusual designs and historical backgrounds. For example, Ploshchad Revolyutsii (Пло́щадь Револю́ции) is one of the most famous stations in the Tverskoy District of central Moscow. The station is named after Revolution Square, under which it is located. Here, each arch has a pair of large bronze sculptures depicting the people of the Soviet Union, including soldiers, farmers, athletes, writers, aviators, industrial workers, and schoolchildren. There are 76 sculptures in the station, approved all by Stalin himself. One of the most popular sculptures is a dog that accompanies a frontier guard. Another one is a big rooster that accompanies a woman aviculturist. Based on my own experience, all metro stations are well kept. They are huge, well made and with outstanding security. They have the usual services and more. They have good maintenance, and renovations constantly. All of them have a lot of employees and trains. The Moscow Metro provides a fine service and it's very efficient . Take some time to walk in the oldest stations, it's worth it. You'll find interesting and different features (art work, statues, ceilings, lighting) in each station. The Moscow Metro is always improving. Recommended.;5;January 28, 2017
A real high end experience!;Please take a look at the first / older stations. Real historical memorials and a simbol of Russian socialism, of their Feeling in the 30th/40th of last century.;5;January 26, 2017
Amazing architecture;Many metro stations in Moscow are worth visiting just to see the design and architectural features. We spent ages at Komsomolskaya station admiring the mosaics, the lighting and domed ceilings.;5;January 25, 2017
Wow;The metro is very easy to navigate and the central line, which covers the central area of Moscow even has signage in English and announcements. It is very efficient and extremely cheap to use. If you get chance you should visit at night to get the atmosphere and take a tour of the central areas to see the wonderful art work at all the stations and which is different at each station.It's worth just doing a few trips around to see the stations.;5;January 25, 2017
You have to speak or read Russian;I guess there is no other underground system in the world that you just cannot understand what the signs say. And on top of that, you have no one speaking English. You just have to either be able to read Cyrilic or know the stations. Apart from this problem, some of the stations are indeed magnificent. That's what the 4 stars are for.;4;January 24, 2017
Great experience, beautiful subway stations;The most beautifull architecture in plenty of subway stations throughout Moskow.  Easy way to go around and at the same time splendid marble floors, statues all around, etcetera.  Once you understand the system you will find your way around.  Don't hesitate to ask anybody, the Russians are very helpfull when they speak english..;5;January 24, 2017
Metro;Like you're in a museum. The decor is grand and the art is amazing. Clean, with wifi, huge, lot of people and fast.;4;January 24, 2017
"Worth the journey";Not only is the Moscow metro a highly efficient way of getting from A to B -  said to transport as many people as the subways of London and NY toghether, trains comming every 2 minutes. It is also a travel from one beautiful station to another!They are not all very special, and some are not so well kept, buut take a trip on the inner ring (line 5), and get out and look at those stations - very nice! If you are there just for the transportation, the very best is that the stations are vey wide, large corridors, lots of space around you - making you feel much more comfortable and safe than in any other metro/subway I tried.Here are some top hit stations: Novoslobodskaya (glass mosaics), Belorusskaya (sculptures), Kievskaya (mosaics, lamps);5;January 23, 2017
Nice;Took a walking tour of Metro  Highly recommend it.  Wear good walking shoes. Suitable for rainy or cold day.;5;January 23, 2017
World's most beautiful underground;Moscow metro is a speedy, convenient and cheap public transport and also a very beautiful place to visit. Almost every station is a piece of architectural art. There is also a number of trains bearing names of their own and some special design.;5;January 22, 2017
The most beautiful and cleanest metro ever;It's a sheer pleasure to visit the metro stations. Unfortunately we did not have time to visit all of them, but to mention just a few: Arbatskaya, Revolution, and Kiev metro stations were very beautiful.;5;January 22, 2017
The most exciting subway in the World;If you come to Paris, you have to visit the Eiffel Tower. When you travel to Moscow, you MUST visit the local subway! There's no need to travel all over the Metro - just come and see the Ploschad Revolutsii (Revolution Square) Station. This is the most beautiful subway station all over the World! You'll be impressed by the monuments of this station.;5;January 22, 2017
Great interiors for metro station;Every station of Moscow metro has its unique design! Everywhere is clean and comfortable with benches, magazine counters and cold and hot drinks stands. Some trains are very beautifully designed with different teams. Wifi is available inside the train. I love traveling in Moscow metro;5;January 22, 2017
A journey back in time an style;Clanky trains but great service, the stations are beautiful and no advertising, bravo. Helps to have  aRussian speaker with you, to avoid getting lost!;5;January 21, 2017
You don't see metro like this in other place in the world. It is a must.;Once you get the metro map. You do not need to understand Russian... we found easy to commute and changing the lines.( Maybe for the people that is not usual with metro in big cities, may find difficult ) Just go and explore. Was fun take the metro with my kids looking for treasures ( the metro) Even using the automatic machines was easy. Convenient, accessible and rich in culture.;5;January 20, 2017
More than just a metro;Amazing experience, more than just a regular metro, Moscow Metro has 195 stations and its route length is 325.4 km (202.2 mi). This metro is called the most beautiful in the world – 44 of the nearly 200 stations are listed as cultural heritage sites. Compared to many other metros around the world this has been my favorite and great $ for it. You must use the metro when visiting the city.;5;January 20, 2017
Moscow metro review;Fast and cheap metro.Orientation is a little difficult for non russian reading.The metro is a good choice for moving around the city.;4;January 20, 2017
lost in a subway;you could be lost down there but you have to take all the lines, to visit the most of the metro stations! difficult because all the signs are in russian language but lost in the crowd you will see the old culture of Russia and the new way of life of people of Moscow! amazing details to the most of the metro stations, that you could spend a whole day travelling and looking at the stations even it is difficult without a guide! in Noevmber when i was last time was under renovation that i am affraid that will last for months so check first before your trip to Moscow! ( ive vist it in the past and i also used it for visting diffferent places! just be carefull with the Russian letters);5;January 19, 2017
Must visit in Moscow;Metro in Moscow - one of the most unique in the world.Very deep underground. You feel almost exhausted going down very long way.Extremely many people there. Absolutely crowdy and all possible nationalities there. This is no place to be polite, people are in hurry and really selfish.Be careful keeping wallet with you.Keep your children nearby.Still very beautiful metro stations in Moscow- like an art gallery around.Feeling great at least from such perspective.Metro is cheap in Moscow, all people using it daily as only chance to avoid terrible traffic jams on the streets.Visit it and you'll be surprised;5;January 19, 2017
Like a huge museum with fast-moving crowd and low entry fees.;The metro is amazing, it's like a museum with all the statues, mosaics, and marble. Do spend an afternoon there visiting the main station (most of them are on Koltsevaya Line). A few tips: the names of metro stations in Russian are long and can be confusing. But they are marked by numbers and colours too, so it's not hard to get around. Stay away from the metro during the rush hour. When exiting the metro car, do not stop right there looking for your way around as you will be carried away by the crowd of Moscovites. Rather step away to the wall, wait for the crowd to subside, and then look for the right directions. Or better, know in advance which line you need to take next. Sometimes directions are written on big tiles in the floor. One thing to keep in mind - Russian social norms strictly dictate to yield your seat to the elderly and women of all ages. So be ready to get up (if you're a man) if a woman stands next to you. It's not as strictly enforced as before but you can get some disapproving looks or even get lightly poked by others to yield your seat :). It's your choice of course but don't be surprised if that happens.;5;January 19, 2017
Place you must to see when in Moscow!!!!!;Each station different, very nice stylish places and at the same time it is a fastest way for transportation in Moscow.;5;January 19, 2017
FAST AND CONVENIENT;Of course the beautiful stations are world famous, but we were also impressed by how efficient they are. It is easy to find your way, even for a non Russian. The trains arrive every 90 seconds, so there is virtually no waiting. Very nice indeed, they make exploring Moscow a treat.;4;January 19, 2017
Amazing;Plan to spend a while day if you can manage it. Spectacular. And add the joy of riding the metro. Go with a plan or just go and hop out regularly. It won't disappoint. The crowds are amazing and add to experience but make sure you have a clear plan for when ( not if ... it is likely to happen at least once) you get separated. We travelled with another couple each time we visited and one failed to board on time both times. This wasn't a problem but even with plan of meetin next train at next stop was a bit tricky woth the crowds;5;January 18, 2017
1000;My favorite metro in the world, I been around a lot: hole Europe, USA, JAPAN, but this is absolutely my fav one :);5;January 18, 2017
amazing!;the most beautiful metro system ever, metro stations are amazing and there is lots of history to see there. the metro itself works perfectly and its not hard to use once you get around once or twice. the tour takes you to many beautiful stations but it is good just to go around and check them out.;5;January 18, 2017
Underground Art Nouveau;Coming from Paris, with its often dirty and narrow corridors, stained walls, and гermanent garbage decor, you are amazed by the design of several Moscow underground stations !!!Marble, elegant lights, sculptures, architecture....Not forgetting the legends, in some of the stations, like some sculptures, eroded by the rubbing of thousands of feminine hands, hoping to get a magic "kick", and get ....pregnant...Besides, without the Underground, what would Moscovites do ? They would be spending 4 to 5 hours in daily traffic jam !!!Not easy though for foreigners, if you do not red the Cyrillic alphabet ! But you always get help from local, to guide you to the right deck !;5;January 18, 2017
Visit to the history;I have been to Russia few times and visit to russian metro station always excites me... the architecture.... the history behind it.... quiet fascinating...;4;January 17, 2017
If you have not seen Moscow metro , then you have missed something in Moscow.;Moscow metro one of oldest metro and one of most deep below the ground.In Moscow do not miss metro.There are stations which are piece of art by itself. They will even put 5 star hotel lobbys to shame.There are separate Moscow metro tours which are available locally or you can book online.Also if you are adventure type, just buy metro ticket (day pass), chouk out best station to visit ( Google will help), then again using translater , maps you can explore on your own. Happy Moscow.;5;January 17, 2017
Metro in Moscow;Wonderful and very well kept, which takes you everywhere you like to go in Moscow.So nice and clean, with amazing speedy escalators.;5;January 17, 2017
The best Subway in the world!;I'm from just outside of London, so quite familiar with Subways, but Moscow's subways blow every single other city in the world out the water. They are just absolutely stunning, and designed down to the very last detail. I wish I went on the Subway tour !;5;January 16, 2017
Fast and looking great;If you visit the Moscow you should go underground. The central stations looks like piece of art. Expecially I recommend Ploshad Revolucii station. Dark-blue line, just under the Kremlin. Kievskaya, Belorusskaya, Mayakovskaya are also the great. It is also the best way to travel in Moscow. The frequncy of coming trains  - normal 2 min, in a rush hour about 1 min. All tables translated to English. Voice ads on Russian only. Single ticket 50 Rub (0.8$). If you use a Troyka card (same like Oyster) 35 Rub. All coaches have a free Wi-fi (!) Most of them are air-conditioned;5;January 16, 2017
Stunning;Once you get the hang of it, and it's really no different to the London underground really, the metro is a good way to get to places further afield and is good value for money. Some lines even announce in English if you're lucky. Quite a few of the stations are really beautiful. It's worth looking them up in a guide book and spending a couple of hours visiting them.;5;January 15, 2017
Time travelling in Moscow;All of the main metro stops within central Moscow tell a story.  My last visit I was in Киевская station and I was marvelling at all of the paintings of production from the Ukraine - wheat, potatoes, grains, vegetables, fruits.  A utopia to be sure. Let's see what the next style of management creates in this region. This station is just one of many which tell of a rich and proud history of the Soviet era.;5;January 14, 2017
Easy to use with some thought;Get metro guide with both English and Russian letters for station names.  Easier to figure out direction you need having both.  Buy say a 20 pass card, you can use the same card for >1 person by scanning consecutive times for number or people travelling.  Clean (spotless), safe (always police at least during Christmas holidays).  Stations are beautiful.  Rather than go on subway station tour, just use the subway and you will see plenty of beautiful stations enroute.  And skip the irritation of taxi negation on pricing.;5;January 12, 2017
The Best Metro In the World;Do yourself a favour plan ahead & learn the Russian Alphabet it will help you immensely. Don't be scared the Alphabet is actually easy, a little tip trains are announced in English inside the train but most signage is in Russian but follow the footpath indicators for colour of metro you are chasing and number.;5;January 11, 2017
History;Each station of the Moscow metro is beautiful ... on each station you'll see mosaics, statues of historical figures, they are very clean;5;January 11, 2017
The most beautiful in the world;Very beautiful, authentic and the deepest in the world but too much overloaded and has a very old carriages without air conditioning .;3;January 11, 2017
Nice;I would totally recommend to take the metro in Moscow. It is very well organized and cheap in comparison with other city. The metro stations are beautifully decorated and you will get the impression to be in a art nouveau museum.;4;January 11, 2017
Efficient and affordable;Good for getting around, the trains seemed to come every few minutes from my experience.  It only costs 100 roubles for a ticket.;4;January 11, 2017
Exciting;At the subway station ‘Imeni Revolution’ some of the bronze figures are shining. For example the muzzle of a guard dog or the bird of the kolkhoz woman. This is because passengers caress the dog or the rooster. This become a tradition, such as the wild boar in Florence.Don’t hurry to get on the train, I recommend to see more Arbatskaya, Paveletskaya, Taganskaya, Kievskaya, Belorusskaya, Prospect Mira…;4;January 10, 2017
You will not believe;During the visit to Moscow, an every stop-over to one of the metro stations is just a true surprise. Even the distance one are beautiful. No need to go to paid tours, joust do it yourself.;5;January 9, 2017
Must see Prospekt Mira, Kievskaya and Belorusskaya stations;Prospekt Mira has a really long elevator ride, must be 100 metres !! Kievskaya, Belorusskaya and few others have marvellous architecture. Must visit these stations at least !;5;January 9, 2017
Museum or Metro?;Not just efficient, it's an art gallery to boost.  Most impressive, no smell, no trash, no graffiti.  I guess all the security helps, but there are mosaics, sculptures, paintings, chandeliers... There was even 1 line announcing stops in English (light blue);5;January 8, 2017
The most beautiful metro of the world!;Moscow metro - is the most beautiful metro of the world! It is an arhitectural monument! You have to see all central stations.;5;January 8, 2017
An uplifting visit;The metro is an uplifting visit. The entrances I visited started out quite ordinary, but that changed once I reached the platform where dull walls were replaced with marble walls, mosaic and chandeliers. I visited two stations on my route (Belorusskaya and Komsomolskaya), both impressive to me. The stations I passed also looked impressive. Belorusskaya is also the closest metro station to the end station of the airport express train from Sheremetyevo airport, so it an easy sight to see on the route to something else.;5;January 7, 2017
Great architecture;That big city is connected with an amazing metro system. some stops have so nice statues and paintings, you feel like museum.. Find a Russian friend to experience it cause no English signage;5;January 7, 2017
Great transport that comes with palaces underground;This must be the most efficient metro system anywhere in the world! We used it dozens of times and never waited on a platform more than 2 minutes for a train, rather 30-45 secs. Imagine how many trains there must be running at the same time! The Moscow metro is certainly below the ground with some of the longest escalators in the world. Apparently, Stalin dug deep to provide shelter from nazi bombs. As we had a very cold Moscow visit - minus 26 degrees C one day - we were happy to find it quite warm down there. Yes, there are lot of people but we managed to get seats on most trips despite - or maybe because - "winter holidays". To plan the trip, the free Yandex Metro app is an outstanding tool and works without net connection down in the tunnels too. Single tickets are handily bought with cash in station vending machines without queues, or you can buy a preloaded card (with queues).The metro is easily navigated but it is not advisable to rely on latin signs. Most wagons will have all the station names in latin letters as well, but not all. Platforms signs are usually only in Cyrillic. If you - like me - don't speak Russian, it is well worth to take some time to learn to pronounce the Russian/Cyrillic letters, then it is easy to translate to their counterparts on English maps. In a way it will be reading without understanding but not quite so, because this will provide a lot of interesting clues wherever you are in the streets of Moscow. Many words are similar to European languages and the Russians are good at honouring their history and past, not only metro stations are named after writers, composers etc. The Moscow metro is a historic prime sight on its own and some of the stations are truly magnificent in their soviet version of empire style. Heroic propaganda sculptures are found in several stations. If you want to get acquainted with Moscow metro in another, somewhat darker way, the Glukhovsky dystopic sci-fi novels Metro 2033, 2034 and 2035 will do the trick...;5;January 7, 2017
Mayakovskaya station one of the most beautiful station of Moscow etro;Very nice historical places, each station is different and has its own  feeling or emotion. I recommend to visit Mayakovskaya station, Station Ploshchad Revolyutsi, Elektroavodskaya Station and Kiyevskaya Station.;5;January 7, 2017
Clean and safe;Being a raised an American proud of his cities such as New York it was very sad to me to see what a subway system is supposed to look like. Opposed to the constant threat of violence and smell of urine in the New York metro I could eat off the floors of these immaculate train stations. These stations are run very well too with plenty of staff and police presence you always feel safe and never miss your train. That being said, the trains run like every 2.5 minutes so you never feel in a true rush.;5;January 6, 2017
Museum;Moscow metro old stations are like places hall! There are so beautiful mosaics, chandeliers, paintings and sculptures!These stations were called palace for people during the Soviet Union time!;5;January 6, 2017
Can be confussing;If you just want to marvel at the buildings and stations then this is something else. Travelling, tricky, because not all the signs are in English, or even in the standard European font. Don't be afraid to ask, eventually someone will point you in the right direction;4;January 6, 2017
Fast, efficient and grand interiors;The moscow metro has 14 lines. Some have chandeliers, art work even stained glass. It is cheap and efifcient, but can get very crowded during peak hours. Signs are not in English. We ended up taking trains in the wrong direction sometimes. Transfers between lines may involve climbing up and down flights of stairs. Very long escalators to the surface..;4;January 5, 2017
Gorgeous metro. It is like a museum;Moscow have gorgeous metro stations that was big and it was like going inside a museum. The only drawback was that signs and guides taking the metro was difficult to understand.;4;January 4, 2017
Amazing subway;Well worth a using. By far the most spectacular metro I've ever seen. Much better than the St. Petersburg metro! Make sure to bring your camera.;5;January 4, 2017
Moscow Metro;download Yandex app to be able to manoeuvre yourself like a native in this metro. Once you get the hang of it its pretty straightforward. Mind you this is no ordinary metro ..this is a piece of art . every station is highly decorated and has its own history and myths related to it ... Dokt forget to visit Ploschad Revolyutsii station to see the beautiful sculptures.;5;January 3, 2017
Old USSR nostalgia;The train stations are beautiful.  Many of them have old statues and murals of Stalin and others.  The metro is convenient and easy to use.;5;January 3, 2017
Easy to get around;Even though I don't speak Russian the Moscow Metro is very easy to get around. It's quite easy to buy tickets and to travel around.;5;January 3, 2017
Moscow Subway Safe and Clean;It you travel all the way to Moscow you must see there Metro.  Its safe and clean and like stepping back in time.  Each station has a different theme.  So had chandeliers.  The trains are retro probably have not been updated in decades.  But well kept up.;4;January 2, 2017
Very nice corridors which resemble to museum halls;Take some moments of your trip in Moscow to get lost in the metro (it will be very easy to do so, btw). You don't need a tour unless you want to know a bit of history of the various metro station: otherwise, take a map with russian and english indication, look up in internet to the must-see stop, and just wander there. Pay attention to your map, because very few stations have indications in english (even less have announcements of the stops in English), and, to add an additional layer of complexity, very few people would be actually able to help you because most of the Russians do not speak english. The tour is definitely worthwhile, and it can take half an hour. Take your time, enjoytthe architecture of the stations. The experience, of course, is different if you go there on rush hours (which make everything more lively but also more complex) or early in the morning or late at night.;4;January 2, 2017
The art and decor is fascinating;This metro is unlike any other! The decor is grand and the art is amazing. It is super interesting and like an art gallery.;5;January 1, 2017
Public transportation;Comfortable but not much English signess... would be better if they have English on their signess too for foriegners... Seperate entrance & exit.. good idea for crowding but as less of signess.. it may cause of trouble for travellers...;2;January 1, 2017
Surprised!;Never though I needed a guided tour of the underground but this proved to be an exception. Had to be shown which stop to pause and take a look around. In theory you can do it yourself but that would take up a lot of precise time.;4;January 1, 2017
Nice And efficient train system with Unique Metro Stations;Moscow stations are unique as each station has its own style and decorated to represent the different era, from statues to stained glass to mosaic, etc. The trains are also very frequent and is efficient. And the train rides are not expensive. It's a great way to travel to avoid the traffic jams especially in central Moscow...;4;January 1, 2017
Beautiful stations, trains every minute;The metro stations here are something else. We are a family of five who love to travel and our eldest son who particularly has an interest in underground networks. He finds them fascinating and every city break we go on results in a trip on the underground! The stations here are really palatial and eye candy to the traveller, some with mosaics, chandeliers and steeped in history. It's fast and furious though and astonishingly busy so be prepared. If you don't speak any Russian you may struggle a little but we found the ticket staff reasonably helpful. It's worth spending time out of your holiday to visit various extra nice stations.;5;December 31, 2016
Great 👍🏻;Easy to get around but you do need to learn a little written Russian to not get to confused but not impossible;5;December 31, 2016
Fascinating stations with unique stories;Great place to explore, most of the stations has a specific store to its history regarding its design. Cheap and fun activity, but try to avoid the rush hour in the morning and afternoons.;5;December 30, 2016
Fast, frequent, convenient;The metro is everywhere and takes you to all parts of the city. Buying a Troika (rechargeable metro card) cuts down on the cost of each fare and is worth it.;5;December 30, 2016
Dynamic transport system;The Moscow Metro is a loud, noisy, inexpensive, very crowded and fast-moving system that moves millions of people a day. For non-Russian speakers, travel needs to be very carefully planned. Within the system, many of the station names in Cyrillic script also have subtitled names pronounced in normal English/European script. Close attention to route maps is necessary. When in doubt, ask assistance from ticket offices, anyone in uniform, or passers-by who look reasonable. Generally people are very helpful and many speak at least a little English. Some warnings are in order. Carriages can be extremely crowded. Pick pocketing and handbag stealing occurs. Train doors close rapidly and with minimal warning and not always with regard to whether passengers are all aboard, so couples or groups could get easily separated. Otherwise travel is fast and efficient, is out of the weather, and is a great experience.;4;December 29, 2016
Metro 👍;Like museum.Like you're in a museum. Each station is decorated differently. Special cells in the circle.;4;December 29, 2016
Beautiful;We stopped at the most beautiful stations (mainly on the red line) and were impressed with all the beauty we saw. Travellers were suprised to see us taking pictures, when you walk through these stations every day you most probably don't see the beauty anymore....but it is very special!;5;December 29, 2016
Moscow Metro;The most beautiful in the world where you can see the Palace and modern architecture. The best hours to see are after 10 p.m. after rush hours;5;December 28, 2016
An amazing experience;Without a doubt one the highlights of my moscow trip. I am sure you could do this yourself with the help of the internet and a metro ticket. I did however have a tour guide which was helpful but definitely not necessary. The metro is just beautiful and well worth the visit.;5;December 28, 2016
The most beautiful metro stations one can ever see are here!;Undoubtedly the most beautifully done up stations are in Moscow. One must travel by the metro to as many stops as possible only to see the stations.;5;December 26, 2016
Fantastic;Clean,with wifi, huge,lot of people reading,fast,economic and very very siriose stations.Each is different from another.Everyone is great.;5;December 26, 2016
A great ways to get around Moscow - if you can follow the signs!;One of the most comprehensive subway systems that I have ever been on! The distance between stations on many of the lines is the farthest that I have experienced. The newer trains have signs and announcements in both Russian and English. The stations are not numbered and the pronunciation of the station names does not match what the written names would lead a non-Russian speaker to think that the names would sound like. The cost is only 32 Roubles for any length of trip! Pay going in and no card needed to exit at any station! Trains are fast!! They come roaring into the station and leave in a hurry :). Trains are every 30-40 secs or sooner on most every line. A great subway.;4;December 25, 2016
A place to visit.;Moscow metro is indiscritible, AWESOME, you need to visit and use it. It is deep.....I never saw and have used one metro similar in all places around the world I have visited before.;5;December 24, 2016
The best Metro system ever;Safe, clean, very clean, no smell, easy to navigate, no pushy rude people (even during rush hours)Inexpensive, fast, warm - but do watch out for the closing of the train doors.  They are strong, enough to bruise ya.And the decorations, each presented as its own art/history museumI'm totally impressed.;5;December 23, 2016
go for a big metro circle;Me and my friend decided to go go to almost all metro station of a big circle.we spent under the ground more than 5 hours.some of the stops where so IMPRESSIVE some where not.very good to experience a rush hours in metro althouh my russian friend loughed at me that in summer there are 2/3 of russians out of a city :) so summer rush hour and winter rush hour are different expierences in moscow metro.after such a long time and lots experiences it was so good to go out for fresh air;5;December 23, 2016
Efficient means of travel and a must see for tourists;Merto is the fastest an cheapest way of traveling,  you pay only at the entering in the metro,  but if you chage line no payment necessary. The metro stations in the city centre are nicely embellished with different skupltures,  the theme reminded me to the propaganda from my childhood. Despite this the metro stations are beautiful,  worth to visit.;5;December 23, 2016
Best Subway;This underground is amazing. Even though its all in Russian its layout and the diagrams supplied are very easy to understand. The trains are very quick and run two minutes apart. Its clean and packed full of history, each station is unique and offers new surprises. I spent a day just exploring the stations and their amazing Architecture.Watch out for peak hours on main lines, it get packed. One simple rule. Never get between a Muscovite and their train.;5;December 23, 2016
A sight to behold;This truly is a sight to behold.Despite the metro appearing to be used by everyone, it is amazing how clean and efficient it is.The architecture is fabulous particularly in Belarusskaya and Komsomolaskaya. andthe system is very easy to understand and you can travel as far as you like for about 50 rubles.It is well worth spending some time exploring the metro;5;December 22, 2016
the people's palace;they say that Stalin was determined to make the metro a true palace for the poor ones and so it was. if u don't visit the metro and make sure to stop in more than a station to contemplate the beauty of the arts in there, u have not seen anything about Moscow. not to mention the longest stairs you will ever see in a metro station;5;December 21, 2016
Very efficient;If you can't read Russian language not so easy to travel with. I am lucky with my colleague Metro is very efficient and fast and clean when Moscow is under snow. Much better than taxi;5;December 21, 2016
Puts other metro networks to shame!;Beautiful underground metro stations which makes other metro stations look very functional, must do in Moscow;4;December 21, 2016
Unlike any other train system in the world;I had the privilege of been taking to a few of the most impressive stations by a local commuter (not sure I would manage on my own). The grand scale of the stations and the uniqueness of each one is quite amazing. OK you probably need to be a bit of a transport geek to appreciate the most. But if you are...well worth the visit;4;December 20, 2016
Underground palazzos;Moscow metro stations are truly unique! Some are decorated so nicely that you will need long time to enjoy the stucco, statues, mosaics and all sort of decorative techniques used. Take you time. Go for it and you will believe that Moscow Metro is the best!;5;December 19, 2016
The metro is Moscow's greatest art piece;It's warmer down there, it's cleaner and you'll literally want to take pictures of it.  Compare that to the dirty, nasty metros of other cities like Paris.  To me, it's Moscow biggest and most interesting piece of art!;5;December 19, 2016
The best way to move in Moscow;I love the metro and always use it when walking is too long. I can't stand the crazy traffic in Moscow and indeed love the metro option. It might be difficult during the rush hours but as a tourist you could avoid that. Otherwise it is beautiful, convenient and inexpensive.;5;December 19, 2016
The Moscow Metro is an exceptional method to get around Moscow quickly;A fast efficient cheap method to get around Moscow.  There are public washrooms but they are locked ... and require a key available from the guards to use.;5;December 18, 2016
Stunning and Functional;Luckily i had a Russian colleague give me a mini tour, otherwise i woul have got lost. Beautiful, imposding and fascinating architecture which gives a peek into the culture and history of the imposing and beautiful city of Moscow. Dont leave the city without seeing the Metro!;5;December 16, 2016
Subway tour;We did a tour of the subway system on our first night in Moscow just to take in the incredible variety of art across the various stations. It's like taking a train between museum galleries - it's that impressive. And the metro is super easy to figure out and people are very orderly about boarding - nothing like NYC!;5;December 15, 2016
Really nice!;Beautiful stations! A lot of trains which is very useful to avoid to much crowd. Good connections between the many different lines. Absolutely fantastic, and quiet cheap.;5;December 15, 2016
Unique.;One of the coolest metro systems in the world. Each station is different. Trains are very frequent. Check it out.;5;December 12, 2016
Part of the History;Every Metro station has its own spirit and decoration. Mayakovskaya station is truly incredible decorated. Next time in Moscow, I'll visit as many station as possible because I was amazed.;5;December 11, 2016
More than a Metro;Moscow metro is not a must see, its a must do. Literally. I've been many times in Moscow, but the first time I took a train alone, I got lost and enjoyed it fully. I found myself in a public, underground, rich and noisy gallery and it was an amazing feeling. Ever since, I get lost on purpose, whenever I can afford the time for it. If I had a spare week in Moscow, I would name it a Metro Week, bring a massive book to read between stations, and I would go around and see them all! State of the Art! A must must must do. Or at least see.;5;December 10, 2016
a museum;being from the east coast of usa i figured a subway was just trains and track. when i wne into the moscow system and saw all the fancy wall and expecially all the art work i was very impressed. the system moves thousands of people a day. the cars are a bit antiquated but are extremely effective and on time. albeit a its hard to find a seat during the peak times. the art is a through back to the ussr. sspring 2008;5;December 9, 2016
A fantastic touristic visit ; one of the best places of Moscow !;more than 200 stations, and some of them are gorgeous. You need to put your head up in order to see everything. Very interesting period, as nostly built in the 30's and 40's.;5;December 8, 2016
Excellent;With Moscow Free Tours. Good afternoon out with guide Marina, very knowledgeable and enthusiastic. Able to travel Metro easier independently after information given .;5;December 7, 2016
Can be little confusing but worth visiting.;If you get chance to take a tour ( normally 1-1:5 hrs) go for it.  Beautiful with lot of history. You won't see same anywhere else. Easy access, lots of impressive sights.;5;December 7, 2016
Very convenient to avoid terrible traffic in Moscow.;Very appropriate way of transportation in Moscow, clean and easy to orient yourself as a tourist if you get a metro map. You can pay with credit card. People are always ready to help you in case you need direction;4;December 5, 2016
Amazing;If you are a tourist and want to have a very unique experience be sure to ride the metro.  The metros in Russia are maintained very well.  They are also very deep in the ground.  The Russian metro systems are so much better than NYC, San Francisco, Boston, etc.  Be sure not to miss this.;5;December 4, 2016
Fast, effective, and an art gallery in itself;The Moscow Metro is one of the oldest underground train systems in the world. It is fast, efficient, inexpensive, and easy to negotiate. You can buy single trip tokens or a multi-trip card. In July, a 20 trip card cost 650 roubles.A trip lasts from when you enter the system to when you leave it so if you want to spend an entire day riding the rails to check out all the fabulous stations artworks, you can do it for the cost of a single trip.The older stations are the more ornate, with even their entrances being architectural wonders, let alone the amazing concourses below ground.Trains run frequently, about every 5 minutes during the day.One confusing thing is that the same station, if it is a junction for switching between lines, will have a different name on each line. For example: Okhotny Ryad on the Red Line, Teatralnaya on the Green Line, and Ploshchad Revolutsii on the Dark Blue Line are essentially all in the same complex. Once you have worked out where you want to go, it becomes a lot easier, just counting how many stops you have to make on each line before changing trains onto a different colour line, which are quite well marked in the stations. Being able to read Cyrillic helps but is not essential.Inside the train is not only a map of the line you are on, generally in both Russian and English, that you can easily follow, but the next station is both displayed on a rolling screen and also announced.If, after all this, you still get lost, the locals are more than happy to point you in the right direction.You can download a map of the system as an Ap on your smartphone from the Moscow Metro website.;4;December 4, 2016
Not your average metro;Various metro stations are attractions in themselves.  Bronze sculptures, marble columns, mosaics, chandeliers are only a few of the sights.  It is almost like visiting a museum, you have to remind yourself you are here for transportation.  Metro travel itself is fast and efficient. A must see!;5;December 3, 2016
Amazed How Beautiful It Is.;Absolutely beautiful, especially compared to the dirty London ones.I couldn't keep my mind off the walls and the chandeliers!The people were also really kind around here.;5;December 3, 2016
metro like museum;very impressive.very intresting art on the walls and on the silling. intresting: no gurbage can, no toilets.;5;December 2, 2016
Getting around Moscow;Metro is easy   cheap less than a pound. Very quick  starts 5.30  closes at 1am.Not to difficult to navigate  the ticket office helpful and security is high. Nice buildings   please travelling experience.;5;November 30, 2016
do visit;Moscow metro deserves all the praise it gets from tourists. Just avoid rush hours (8-10 am, 5-7 pm). Many visitors complain about lack of English, it is now being fixed, there are 3 lines (# 5, 7 and 14) with announcements in English, floor signs in English and by 2018 Fifa World Cup the whole system will get a brand new navigation  in several languages (you can already see some elements of it at some stations). Several stations like Ploshad Revolucii or Arbatskaya also feature tourist information kiosks which offer paper city center maps and advice in English. Tips on using metro Wifi - connect to the "mos_metro" network aboard the train and click a British flag on top the page to swith to English, then follow the instructions. BTW, some Moscow buses now also feature free Wifi.I also saw complaints on how you can't pay for tickets with credit cards, it is also a non-issue anymore, all machines and kiosks accept them.Old soviet trains are also being changed for the new ones - only 3 lines still use them.;5;November 29, 2016
So many beautiful stations.....;Easy to navigate yourself around the circle of beautiful metro stations...with stained glass, statues, mosaics... If yo wanted to know the history you would need a guide, but just to them for yourself is a treat on a rainy day.;5;November 27, 2016
Breathtaking;Absolute great experience. Please take half a day to visit most of the stations and walk around to see the pure beauty of it.;5;November 27, 2016
Great Metro System - with some caveats!;Used the Metro extensively while on a week long trip to Moscow.  Of all the metros I have used, have to say this one rates up there with the best - better than NYC, on a par with Paris/London.  First - the cost is decent - 50 rub per ride.  Trains are quick and efficient, and move every minute or less during peak times.  The new Circle line cuts time even more for trips around the city center. Second - stations are massive and handle a lot of people efficiently.  We typically took 4 to 6 trips a day - and pedestrian traffic moves well.  Stations are impressive - very historical.  Stop and take a look at the decor, the information plaques, and the overall layouts - most were built in the late 40s/early 50s, and some beautifully done designs and materials.Third - while the system is efficient, it isn't often straightforward.  Signs to other lines are on the floor - and it can be a bit of a scavenger hunt to find the line you need, especially during rush hour...  Stations are listed above - so study some some Cyrillic, and take your time reading the stations you want beforehand.  Most stations and trains have little in English or other languages.Lastly - Fun! Really enjoyed using the Moscow Metro, and I am a veteran of NYC, Paris and London systems.  Trains move quickly, and you can travel a lot of ground in short time.  Also - the Metro connects to the AeroExpress train at Kievskaya Station, which takes you straight to Vnukovo airport (35 min ride).  Very easy way to get to the airport if you want to avoid Moscow traffic during the day.;4;November 26, 2016
Underground Palaces;The Most elegant Underground Metro Stations in the World. Every station is a Museum in itself. Don't waste this opportunity to visit "Soviet Era Russia" by renting a car, or using Uber.;5;November 25, 2016
Metro;Stunning decor but the ticketing system is confusing and the messages on the barriers only appear in Russian. This meant the barriers closed around my body on one occasion - rather painful. The ticketing information needs displaying in English in the stations as the ladies behind the counters never speak a word of English.;3;November 24, 2016
Russian & Soviet History Underground;The Moscow Metro opened in 1935 its only line with 13 stations. The total length was less than 7 miles. Today, in 2016, the subway system connects all points of the megacity.  There are 200 stations with an interconnected web over 200 miles long. There are fabulous examples of Russian and Soviet art. The Kievskaya station portrays famous writers, poets and  revolutionary figures of the Ukraine. Lenin’s Library station offers the best mosaic portrayal of the leader of the October Revolution.  The Mayakovskaya station depicts 24 hours in the Land of the Soviets.  If you want to see early Russian history take a Circular line to Komsomolskaya station and walk along side the entire station to watch the history unfold from Alexandr Nevsky (13th c.),  Dmitry Donskoy (14th c) all the way to the Revolution of the 1917.  Continue on the Circular line and visit the amazing stations of Prospect Mira, Novoslobodskaya, Belorusskaya, and Park Kultury among them.  All you have to do on the Circular line is to get off, walk around to see if you like the station and move on!;5;November 24, 2016
Efficient;The Metro serves most parts of the city with very good frequency of 3min apart service. The carriages are clean and the train moves pretty fast. The beautiful underground stations are the topping on the cake.;5;November 24, 2016
Fntastic Architecture;Few Metro stations are nothing but Architecture masterpiece. However, using the Metro from the Airport to Moscow Central was challenging.Unless you speak a little Russian, or get some help, the taxi is a safer bet!;4;November 24, 2016
Do not miss the Station 'Mayakovskaya';Impressive build up mixing styles of art deco and modern with soviet style mosaics. Make sure you check all of them!;5;November 24, 2016
Amazing Metro;UnderGround in Moscow is an unique monument  in the World. It is a real museum , in each station you can admire pieces of Russian history such as statues , paintings and so on. Definitely you will enjoy travelling by metro in Moscow city indeed.;5;November 22, 2016
A bit scary, but very beautiful;Every metro station is different with its own story. Almost every station has luxurious ornaments, wall paintings, marble decorations and impressive columns, it's a must see! Still, you have to be careful, a lot of people there, keep your belongings safe.;5;November 21, 2016
transported through space and time;It is easy to use (better if you have a little Russian) many signs in English and maps to guide you.  Cheap cheap cheap 38 roubles will buy a ticket to anywhere in the city.  The trains fly along at what seems like an enormous speed.  Thousands of passengers but if you don't mind a little jostle quite manageable. Buy a scannable ticket for enough journeys to last you in the city - you will save. At peak periods there are queues for up and down escalators just be patient.  Very deep stations but luckily for us no escalator breakdowns.  Good way to observe the Muscovites young and old.;5;November 20, 2016
Amazing, palace like underground stations;This is a must visit! Many of these metro stations are incredibly decorated with wall paintings, sculptures, chandeliers, etc, etc..Extraordinary places, which you will not find elsewhere in the world. Go underground ans be surprised!;5;November 20, 2016
Amazing experience;One word for the Moscow Metro....WOW.  For locals, it is nothing more then a means to get from point A to point B.  For a tourist, it is part of the experience.  We actually used the Metro to get to and from our hotel and Red Square.  Along the way, we got off at a few other stops (don't recall the names, but they are posted) that have amazing architecture.  As trains run every 8 or so minutes, it's like speed dating for attractions.  Another single word for the Metro...efficient.  And cheap. Less then one U$D one way.  Easy too navigate if you have ever been on a Metro around the world.;5;November 20, 2016
Moscow Metro;You really need to get off at most stations to take in the individual style of archetecture and decor. Awesome;5;November 19, 2016
Great way to get around, missed the architecture;We were very impressed by the efficiency of the system, having bought a 20 journey rail card we hopped on and off to get around Moscow and never had to wait more than a minute for a train, mind you the system is very, very deep and as many people have remarked the escalators really are vertiginous, a bit of a challenge for anyone not happy underground. Unfortunately  our various journeys did not take us to any of the famous stations but the whole system was clean, effective and all refreshingly free of advertisements. Navigating round the network is quite tricky unless you nave mastered the Cyrillic alphabet so I would suggest getting a good app for your phone or tablet to help with navigation. There are announcements made but they are often drowned out by the noise. Some of the more modern trains do have electronic displays showing where you are but counting stops is probably best. The other thing we noted is that on the street the metro stations are not always terribly well signed, small Ms on the facade are often the only clue and as some stations are tucked away off the main streets  they sometimes take a little tracking down.;4;November 19, 2016
Beautiful metro stations;Stations are beautiful but trains are not. The door just slams so hard that if you come in between it may just crash you. However i also saw few which has better doors now !!!;5;November 19, 2016
Efficient and spectacular transport system.;There are several good on-line guides to the Moscow Metro System which include images of the signage but here are my tips;1 The best map we found was provided by the Aeroexpress Intourist desk at Domodedovo airport which gives station names in Cyrillic and Latin text. The metro signage is almost exclusively Cyrillic while most other information elsewhere is given in Latin text.2 Make a note of the first few characters and line numbers of the stations that you want to use, e.g. OXOT (line 1) for the Kremlin and Red Square, KOMCOM (line 1 & 5 ‘circle’) for the Sapsan to St Petersburg, and COKO (line 1) for our hotel, Holiday Inn Sokolniki.3 There are several main types of signs to recognise, the directions to a particular line (colour and number coded), the platform 1 & 2 signs, and the station and connection information above the tracks. If you are not sure because a train is in the station let it go to see the sign because the next one will be along in a minute or so. Do not be confused by the signs at the bottom of escalators which are intended for people going up, better to move along the platform to see the correct signs.4 The exit directions are in black, BbIXOA B TOPOA is as near as I can get.5 If you are counting stops remember that some maps don’t include all the smaller stations (the map mentioned above does).6 Where lines intersect, each line will have a different station name so make sure you are looking for the right one at each change of lines.The system is cheap and efficient and some of the stations are more like palaces. It is very easy to navigate, and after a day or two becomes second nature. Have fun!;5;November 19, 2016
Worth a visit and cheap to travel;The stations are clean, bright and feel safe. Ticket sales ladies are friendly and one stop on the metro cost around 50p each. Archietecture beautiful and trains are rather full.;5;November 18, 2016
No english. Beautiful and big station i've ever seen;Actually the metro line here is not complicated as in london, tokyo or seoul but the big problem is there is no english. And people there they  hardly speak english. You should take a picture for the station you want to get off and compare it with the symbolic in russian. But the metro stations are so big and have their own style. However, i'd rather take uber than metro as it's easier and cheap. Hope they will improve by having english in the metro soon.;2;November 18, 2016
WOW WOW WOW!;All the metro stations are different, and this is clearly the best way to travel in Moscow. I bought a pass for seven days (800 rubles), and used it maybe ten-fifteen times per day.;5;November 18, 2016
Excellent metro;Very deep underground. Well connected to entire city. Many station display the history of Moscow city.;5;November 17, 2016
Underground museum;I believe it is on of the most beautiful subways in the world. Visiting central stations you dive yourself in a kind of a museum with all that pictures, mosaics, sculptures. What is more, the ticket price to this "museum" is unbelievable low )));5;November 17, 2016
Yes it's everything you've heard about;I didn't do the Metro tour - available on your own with a map or with a guide - so just saw a few stations and am sorry I didn't see more. A great way to spend part of a cold, rainy or hot day and unlike any other Metro in the world. Note, however, that signs are only in Cyrillic so best to learn how to read that if you're on your own.;5;November 16, 2016
Tour with a guide was excellent;Did enjoy seeing about 10 very different stations. Our guide pointed out what to look at and took us around. I wasn't sure I would have felt too confident to have found my way round on my own;4;November 16, 2016
Technology Advancement leaves a Landmark;The Metro Rail as well as the Metro station was clean and well maintained by the Authorities.People can count on this Metro for longer as well as short travels.They provide Free WIFIs and that was one of the kind of services offered along.;4;November 16, 2016
A testament to Russians' pride in their city;This spider-shaped rapid transit system transports more than the entire population of NYC's five boroughs every day, and by ridership almost doubles that of the Big Apple's own subway while remaining monumentally, dramatically breathtaking.The Metro and its crowds run according to their own dynamics which visitors must master fast. First and foremost, if you wish to stand and look, get out of the way! Secondly, if you are walking, keep your peripheral vision open and pre-plan how you'll walk around or avoid someone whose path you'll intersect. Thirdly, it being a crowded public place, pickpockets can be anywhere, so be very considerate with your valuables and store absolutely NOTHING in your back pocket. English is being slowly integrated into the system, however I encourage all visitors to appreciate that the country and city owe foreigners no duty to accommodate inability to speak or read Russian. English signage is a courtesy, not a right, and the system has TEN MILLION Russians to focus on daily.As a visitor, begin with the ring line and, as you visit the city, make bylines while getting from place to place to visit all stations enclosed by the ring. Remember that interchange stations have different architectures between lines!Many stations built during the late Khrushev and Brezhnev years are particularly drab and unimaginative, but thankfully confined to the outskirts. My suggestion is to get a Troika card or a multi-ride ticket (go for 20) and ride to your heart's content outside of rush-hour times. Learning the Cyrillic alphabet and a few Russian words (such as "twenty, please") will take you a long way to enjoying yourself.Police presence is intense, the cops take no flak from anyone and the force needs no probable cause whatsoever to ask for your ID and verify your legal status in Russia. Have a copy of your passport, visa and registration on hand at all times when in Russia (yes, all three).;5;November 15, 2016
Fast and efficient;Coming from a country where you cannot count on public transport to be on time or ariving at all, it was such joy to use Moscow Metro.   You just need to be able to read the stations names, and leave the rest to the rest.    Jump on and enjoy.;5;November 15, 2016
Outstanding public transportation;The system was extensive and clean! The fare were reasonable, there is "free wifi" even in the areas that were very deep underground. It was a fun way to enjoy Moscow!  Some of the station had an awesome collection of Art work, it was mostly like a free museum.However language could be an hindranceOverall I will suggest finding  a way to experience Moscow metro system;4;November 15, 2016
Fast, efficient, cheap, clean, everywhere;The Metro is the best way around Moscow, and is a delight in itself. It is blindingly fast, with trains every 60-120 seconds. The stations are often architectural monuments in their own right.;5;November 15, 2016
Moscow Metro - Know when to go;Anyone willing to learn what the Moscow metro is like should consider several important things before getting in. First and foremost: the metro is a really busy means of transportation. It brings people to work in the mornings and takes them back in the evening.  Considering that Moscow (and therefore its metro system) has a ring-like shape with a dozen of radial lines, you should always go against the traffic.  If you are there in the morning go outbound, in the evenings - vice versa. The best time to explore the metro are weekend mornings. Although some stations are more beautiful than the others, the most beautiful are connected to the long-distance train stations are are busy all the time! You can buy tickets at any metro station for  one or more trips, the price does not depend on how far you go or how many transfers you are taking during a single trip. Once you come out of the metro you will need to pay (or use your prepaid ticket) again. The station names are announced in Russian and English. For transfers, please, look at the signs on the stations. The newest addition to the Moscow Metro system is the so-called "Moscow Central Ring Road". You may enjoy newer trains with more or less comfortable seats and tour the whole route during an hour or so. However, do not expect stunning views outside your train^ the ring road replaced a once busy cargo rail road and goes thru underdeveloped areas of the city.You can connect to the free wi-fi in the Moscow Metro, once you go thru a painless identification process thru a text message that comes to your smartphone and has to be entered to use the wi-fi. The trains run with a very short intervals of less than 2-3 minutes (except for the Moscow Central Ring Road where there are 5-15 minutes intervals) from 5:30 AM to 1 AM. This new year the Metro will run round the clock as an experiment. This has never happened before though.In general, the Moscow Metro is as safe as any other busy transport. Please, keep your valuables in inside pockets. On the escalators, please, stand on the right hand side. Should you decide to walk take the left hand side and do not be shy to ask anyone in front of you not moving to cede the way.The most beautiful stations to see (and I am biased) are: Arbatskaya (Line 3), Kievskaya (Line 3), Komsomolskaya (Line 5), Mayakovskaya (Line 2), Krasnyye Vorota (Line 1).  Before you go, you should make sure you have a photocopy of your ID to be shown to a police if they stop you, an address where you need to come back (with the nearest metro stop noted). If you go with a group, please, consider a meeting point where you could come back at a specified time if you get split from the group by a gazillion of Moscow Metro patrons.;5;November 15, 2016
amazing;we rode the metro getting on and off at various stations, taking photo's, the train runs every 5 to 10 mins. Each station is different and worth a stop.;5;November 14, 2016
Great way to experience Soviet era art and technology;Take the subway! It is efficient and you get to see the most amazing public art from early Soviet times.;5;November 14, 2016
amazing and effective;Its a bit like being in an underground art museum. It is spotless and the trains are usually on time. Used with quite often;5;November 14, 2016
The maze metro;The Moscow's metro is so big you can build a second city of it. It is very cheap way to travel but... not an easy one if you are not native.;4;November 12, 2016
Amazingly efficient;The Moscow metro is legendary for its stations . To me it is legendary for its efficiency . Caught trains every day over the last week and have not had to wait longer than 1 minute for a train.;4;November 11, 2016
Underground palaces !;I enjoyed stopping at these beautiful stations and taking a look around, just like I was in the palace or a museum. The Moscow station has no English sign so you have to download the application or get a map and compare English and Russian alphabets. Quite fun in the beginning, but then finally tired. Ticket costs 50 Rubles per a journey, no matter how many stations you are going to. So my Moscow metro tour only costed me 50 Rubles :);5;November 10, 2016
Metro ride;It is a must see as everyone else states, and you would be in awe when you see this. But a tip for you to know exactly what you are doing, basically it's going to be a ride in the metro from stop to stop, like a hop on and off underground, so you can choose your route and check out all the different stations. Also walk in the station a bit there might be levels and wall art (dont exit the metro, use one ticket to check it all out). Everything is color coded so if u have a map you will understand quickly how things connect.;5;November 10, 2016
AMAZING !;I didn't have idea about that! The metro of Moscow is super cool, some stations look like a real museum!The atmosphere is good, the train and the aisles are super clean. Also the signs are both Russian and English. Great !;5;November 10, 2016
Invested underground stations;In order to be aware to the variety and richness of the metro stations there is a need to visit at least at 3-4 relevant stations in different lines. Heritage of Communist regime messages to the people. Watch not only the wall but also ceiling and lightning elements. Russian culture richnes for the people and visitors as well.;4;November 10, 2016
Every station an Architecture Marvel;This one and the one in Kiev have to be visited, every station is different with statues and great architectural marvels. It is a Museum in itself.;5;November 10, 2016
Must see in Moscow;We were told that this was a must see while in Moscow and it truly is!  It is beautiful with it's marble walls and floors.  It is so clean, we could eat off the floors.  The bronze sculptures are incredible.  Don't forget to rub the dog's bronze nose for luck!  Be careful, though, the escalators are very steep and seem to go fast!;5;November 9, 2016
Out of this world;You could never describe a commute on the Moscow underground as boring! The problem would be having to get off at every station en route to admire the architecture! Each station is different and they provide a wonderful way to spend an afternoon in this fascinating city.;5;November 9, 2016
amazing;impressive, underground palace well furnished, clean.  Must see place and good sighseeing place to visit in Moscow;5;November 8, 2016
Spend the time to get off at each stop;The Moscow subway system is wonderful and each stop is decorated in a different style. Take the time to get off at each stop (I suggest the brown line) and see the beautiful and varied artwork and decorations.;5;November 8, 2016
Cheap Visits for 30 Roubles;Moscow Metro is among the most elaborate, clean safe and a testiment to Russia's greatness during Stalin's time.  Each station is created differently with cast iron scultures, mosaicsa motifs of the working communism.  It is the most clean and safe metro's I have ever been to in the world.  For 30 roubles you can just keep going and going for an hour i think.  Beware rush hour time as it serves millions of people a day.;4;November 8, 2016
Check Out the Moscow Metro;When in Moscow, be sure to check out the metro.  Older stations are elaborately decorated, with newer ones being more modern.  Beautiful statues, mosaics, etc. can be found.;5;November 8, 2016
One way ticket;For only one way ticket you could visit Moskow Metro and learn about culture and soviet history in once. Major great stations are located on the cercle line. Wonderful to stop at each defined station. Pity it doesn' t exist a dedicated map with precise orientation support but you could ask information desk ( we started beside red place at station plochad de revolutie).;4;November 7, 2016
Love the Moscow metro!!!;We found the metro easy to navigate, with absolutely drop-dead gorgeous interiors.  Pristine clean----we even saw people dusting the handrails!  I think the Moscow metro surpasses any city's transportation system.  I only wish I could have seen all of the metro stations.  Oh, the trains are fast, and I never waited more than a minute for one.;5;November 7, 2016
The most Beautiful and Efficient Metro System in the World;The metro system in an incredible visit and the best means to travel within Moscow.  Every stop has its own art decor and personality.  It's easy to use and costs under a dollar to ride anywhere in the city.  Clearly an incredible value.Purchase a Troika card if you plan to use the metro throughout your stay.  You can purchase these at the ticket counters and reload at the kiosks in the metro station.  The kiosks are available in English as well.Also, the "metro" app for Moscow is an incredible tool as well.  Search for Moscow metro and look for the red "m".;5;November 6, 2016
Our stay in Moscow and its metro;Moscow's metro is really beautiful even if it can appear a little bit old fashioned. It is extremely clean and people are respectful. Easy going to visit Moscow. We definitely recommend it.;5;November 6, 2016
One of the Best Metro Networks in the World;We all need to appreciate,when you do not have to wait more than a minute or two for the next train wherever you want to go. Moscow Metro System is one of a kind. Most beautiful platforms, escalator caves and spotless surrounds including train tracks are greatly commendable. Easy to understand ticketing system at Rub50 for a single trip for any number of changes without getting out of the system and very well detailed maps in every where make your journey easier, even if you do not know the Russian.If you have large baggage all you have to do is buy an extra ticket and go through the side entries with the help of Guards instead of turnstiles. Once you are in, all you have to do is follow the color of your station, your destination color and count number of stations to reach your destination or to your transit station. A must do experience when you are in Moscow.;5;November 5, 2016
The best metro I ever saw.;Beautiful, clean, convenient, easy to use, it is the best metro in the world in my opinion. Every station has a different theme, many dressed in marble with beautiful statues and metro overall looks more like a museum than a subway...;5;November 5, 2016
Magnificent subway;Moscow subway is a simple way to avoid the crazy traffic. It is clean and fairly efficient. However, it is not as tourist friendly as one in St Petersburg: it is hard to locate directions & signs in English. The metro is decorated in Soviet-style, it feels like every station is a celebration of something from the USSR-era.It does get packed so keep an eye on your belongings. And it may get really hot as the ACs are not installed throughout.;4;November 5, 2016
Trains coming one after another;The fastest way to get around the city, avoiding the horrible Moscow traffic. But you must be able to read Russian to find your way. Can be very crowded during rush hours.;4;November 5, 2016
Works of Art All Around;The Metro is extremely clean. I did not see any graffiti unlike what one sees in the subway system of other cities around the world. As I understand it, each of the stops is a bit different. There is one stop where there are statues all around, one of which people who pass it rub for good luck. The Metro ran very efficiently. It's worth the effort to see the stop with those statues which is near Red Square I believe.;5;November 4, 2016
Some more tips and information about Moscow metro;All truth about The Moscow Metro​First line of the Moscow Metro was opened in 1935. It is named in honor of First URSS leader Vladimir Lenin. Today it has 203 stations - 45 stations are part of national cultural heritage. Total length of the Moscow Metro is over 330 km. 8 million Russians use Metro every day. It is one of the biggest and the most intensive in the world (after Tokyo Metro).​For foreigners and expats Moscow Metro is good to move fast from one location to another. Today You can spend a few hours in traffic jams to your deception point while by Metro you will really save your time and will not have any problems with parking your car in the center where it is rather difficult to find a free place.​​Indeed very often you can get where you need by Metro 3 or 4 times faster than by your car or taxi. Even rich Muscovites who used for many years to go for meetings and work by their cars and private drivers today they more and more use Metro.  Besides, Moscow Metro is very cheap. If you buy a special Metro Membership card Troyka (costs less 1 dollar USD) you will pay for one trip about 30 rubles (approx. 50 cents USD). Without this card if you just buy one way ticket you will pay 50 rubles (approx. 80 cents USD). And it is very fast - trains arrive every 2 minutes. For foreigners there are special information plates and stands in English.​The only one disadvantage of the Moscow Metro is that two times a day it is completely overcrowded with people. And it is really difficult to move and feel comfortable and safe in such atmosphere. Some people even fall or get other injures. Plus in the crowd there are many thieves so you should be very careful and pay attention to your things.​                                                                                                                         So we recommend avoiding using Metro in rush hours Monday-Friday from 7 a.m. to 10 a.m. and from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. Always be careful at Russian Metro: use special handrails not to fall down in trains, be careful on escalators, watch your personal belongings, use metro map etc.;5;November 4, 2016
Underground;This is a must-see place, although in other capitals make no sense to visit it. The stations are big, impressive and museum like. Stalin did a nice job to give to his people the grandor of communism. There are lots of stations with different styles. Side note: beware of pickpockets as the Russians will let you bear naked of your money in no time. Police will do nothing as we where told.;4;November 4, 2016
metro in moscow;Moscow has one of the excellent transportation service in the world. its underground and in multiple levels below the ground. recommended and worth a visit.;5;November 4, 2016
Moscow Metro;A trip to the Moscow subway metro is a must see. Behind the Russians limited smiles and conversations to everyone, the Moscow metro will definitely let everyone share smiles and open conversations on how magnificent this place is. Surprisingly, you will find English signs that will help you take that memorable picture!;4;November 3, 2016
English station notification;Since a year or so, besides being the best and most interesting metro network in the world.At some of the lines even have english station notification, moscow makes it worthwhile to visit as a tourist and use the metro as the only efficient transport method .For less then an euro ( if remain underground) you can travel through the whole city and see most beautiful stations in the world;5;November 3, 2016
Must see;Not all of the stations are gorgeously decorated, but the one we saw, Ploshchad Revolutsii,  has impressive sculptures. Look for the one of the Red Army soldier with a dog, and be sure to rub the dog's nose for good luck!;5;November 3, 2016
Very good transport option!;I stayed a week in Moscow and I used the metro a lot. Most of the cars are old, but there are a lot of spectacular stations. The metro is very fast, you almost don't need to wait, if you miss it, the next one comes in a minute or 2. It is very easy to transfer inside the stations, just look at the signs. Probably easier for me because I speak Russian, but still, the signs use colours, so it's pretty easy. Very packed during peak hours. I recommend travelling after 10 am and before 17.;5;November 3, 2016
As beautiful as people say so;The moscow Metro is awesome! Especially Mayakovskaya I really liked. Also Komsomolskaya is beautiful! Please note that you have to look to the floor to see the Latin directions. Still it can be sometimes a bit confusing, but still convenient.;5;November 3, 2016
Just use it, Its Briliant and cheap and photo worthy;Just get on and enjoy the ride and explore some of the wonderful stations, if your lucky you might even get on a special train. Forget London's underground, Yes this has its own nostalgia but this is something special and different.;5;November 3, 2016
Good old or bad old?;The underground system in Moscow is really old. That means, on the one hand, lots of meaning and history, on the other hand, lots of infrastructural risks and troubles. For one, stuffed air during rush hours, and really old trains. Some newer stations are better looking, the old ones worth seeing for their architecture. But really, try to avoid going down there during rush hours :);4;November 3, 2016
Expecting sth more;Some stations deserve it but as a total many of them aren't sth spectacular. Better signage could help also :);3;November 2, 2016
Unique!;Unique place. Impossible to see any other place in the world. At the first sight it is just an underground with old, low quality cars. But it is much more than just a mean of transportation. It is huge, vast place, full of stations of unique beauty - such as Konsomolskya, Majakovska, Square of Revolution ect. You must see all of them and touch a dog's nose at the Revolution's. You can also follow the Glukhovsky's book series 'Metro' (sci-fi);5;November 2, 2016
Don't be scared to use the Metro!!;The Metro is the cheapest and easiest way to get around Moscow. With connections all over the city. Announcements on the train are now in both English and Russian, however most of the signs are still only in Cyrillic! If you plan your route and have names of stations in Cyrillic and Roman alphabets you'll be fine. The routes have numbers and letters so just know both and off you go. Tickets can be bought in English at all the machines and cost 50r (about 80¢) per journey! Best is to buy a 2 journey ticket for 100r. Happy travels!!;5;November 2, 2016
Grandeur of the past;We saw both the Moscow and st Petersburg metro. Some people call it the silent metro as the rail line is 50-100 metre underground. Each station is dedicated to an idea and a guide or lonely planet is recommended if you are exploring. Without knowledge of Russian language you could get lost too. The ticket staff is very friendly. Crowd is busy with their lives- hustle bustle and hurry to reach next. Don't miss the selfie points wherever they are marked. Glass work with mosaic layout is outstanding.;4;November 2, 2016
A great sightseeing attraction and easy travel too!;A 50 rouble ticket will let you travel the subway system all day visiting some amazing stations full of marble, gilt, chandeliers, statues, all sorts of artwork...  Do make the effort to learn the Cyrillic alphabet before a visit to Russia.  It makes it a lot easier to get around above ground as well as on the subway.  Interchange stations can be tricky.  Trains are quick and very frequent so it's easy to spend a couple of hours just visiting the most striking stations.  Stations and trains can be very crowded in peak hour, so try to avoid those times.  Staff at information desks helped us to get the right ticket... it's a bit tricky if you don't speak any Russian at all and can't read any of the signs on the ticket machines. While we didn't take one, a guided tour would be fascinating to find out more about each station.;5;November 2, 2016
Must see;You can buy a tour, but just buy a ticket for 50 RUB, or about 80 cents US. Once in you can ride for hours seeing different ramps. It is very deep. long escalators take you down and back up.;5;November 1, 2016
Pretty pretty pretty;Moscow metro is a pretty underground place, nice stations, its a busy place but a must have when you are in moscow;5;November 1, 2016
The best!;With 1-2 minutes apart trains, Moscow Metro is the fastest and most convenient way to travel within this very busy metropolitan city. Some older stations look like a real museum with wall/ ceiling drawings and great architecture. 2 important tips: 1- If you can afford it take the Metro tour (a unique experience for tourists, tickjets may be purchased on the web)2- As most locals speak no English and as the best way to travel wisely is to "upload" a certain number of rides on a special ticket (rather thasn buying each one at a time- much cheaper!) kindly ask help from your hotel and write down your requests in Russian, to be handed to the station's cashier- you will be sureprised how happy it will make them and how service would improve for you.....;5;November 1, 2016
The most beautiful subway;The most beautiful subway whatsoever I have seen. Both old and new stations, is an opera of art. It is worth do a separate tour for the Moscow metro.;5;November 1, 2016
underground palaces;the moscow metro is truly one of the most amazing things moscow has to offer all marble and chanderliersthe metero will take you just about anywhere you want to go;5;November 1, 2016
Amazing;A definte must try and must see. Amazing stations. Need to ride on the subway to get a feel. Also many great stops along several lines. Besides the Kremlin this is a MUST do.;5;October 31, 2016
A must;Just buy a red metro pass say 10 trips   go to brown line and  just see the stations it is the garden ring lines as long as you don't go to the surface it is  just one trip. Amazing stations, click click click.  train every 2 minutes or so!;5;October 31, 2016
Moscow Underground;Moscow's underground is something special and a must to see for any tourist to Moscow. the design and decorations are amazing.;5;October 31, 2016
A great place;Its a must have in your visit. The engineering that too of so old is amazing. Metro is so fast that every minute metro is back again. Hundreds of years of red granite marble stone is still there and looks like it has been installed recently. Amazing ....;5;October 30, 2016
Difficult to read station names in Russian;The metro is large and the maps were good however it was difficult to recognize the stations on the map due to the different languageThere was no English description - what was interesting however that there was english titles for the stations on the train itself!Lots of people travelling all the time but by far the best way to travel round Moscow as there are always traffic jams on the roads;4;October 30, 2016
great metro;there is a train very 90 seconds which is great. the place is spotless. only saw 2 pieces of paper in the floor in the week. never though I would see a clean metro station and they were all the same. all the metros also have some history behind them which is a great idea.;4;October 30, 2016
Magnificent metro;I visited Moscow last week and travelled round by metro. Many of the stations are absolutely magnificent in terms of their architecture and the sheer variety of different styles. The lights were amazing too! For 50 roubles, it's a day out in itself! You do need to be able to read Cyrillic alphabet to navigate but some stations have names in our alphabet and I suspect this will expand  with the football World Cup on its way. Well worth getting out of the cold for!;5;October 30, 2016
A must see !!!;Do you research for the best stations to see, but for the price of one ticket you can easily find your way around and you will be blown away by the beauty of some of these stations.;5;October 30, 2016
An Hour on the Metro;You can go round getting of at the best stations and getting back on again. We found a list  of the best ones on the internet, they are all different and the best ones are amazing, lots of marble and heroic statues No one minds you taking photos there was even a marked selfie spot at one station. Even if you just spend an hour looking at one or two on the way to somewhere its well worth the effort.;5;October 29, 2016
A must-see and some tricks for English speakers;The Metro Stations in Moscow (and in St Petersburg) are just like miniature museums, with a lot of history,art and culture to see, and they are so cheap. For less than US$1, you can spend an hour or two, visiting the most beautiful ones , e.g.  Mayakovskaya,Kievskaya, Ploshchad Revolutsii, and  Novoslobodskaya. It is also a good way to experience the everyday life of the local Russians. Every now and then you may see a team of 3 or 4 policemen patrolling the platforms, probably to ward off terrorist attacks.  I found that , instead of disturbing or intimidating, rather reassuring. But there are a few difficulties for English speakers/readers . 1. Unlike St Petersburg stations which provide both English and Russian names, the Moscow ones only have names written in Russian alphabets. If you cannot read them, you have to do some preparations beforehand. Google for Russian metro stations with both Russian and English names. Capture screen. Plan your itinerary and familiarize yourself with the routes and lines. For each journey, count the number of stations from your starting point  to your destination. When you take the train, always count the number of stations, because you cannot rely on reading the Russian names and checking them against your captured screen in those few seconds when the train doors are open. If you miss one station, go back by train. Don't leave the train station and walk. Some stations are quite a distance away. 2. Some  stations where you need to transfer to a different line have different names but they are the same station. The different names refer to the different lines ; check the colours representing the lines. Have fun!;4;October 28, 2016
Amazing;Don't come back from Russia unless you see the underground metro. It's best part of visit Photos are just a little taste of what u can expect Oh don't worry .. U can take pictures. The police won't stop u;4;October 28, 2016
Fast and easy;During my trio for business in Moscow, Metro was the fastest and easier way to move around Moscow. Some stations are really beauty piece of art. Really a nice way to travel.;3;October 28, 2016
Excellent!;A very convenient & efficient service which serves all parts of Moscow. Trains arrive every couple of minutes & the whole system is very easy to follow and runs flawlessly like clockwork. Some of the stations are stunningly designed & well worth seeing. Faultless overall!;5;October 28, 2016
Awesome;Every subway station is different, but all are full of art  and history.  Take the subway tour to learn all about it.  You must ride the subway.  Great experience!!!;5;October 27, 2016
Mazed and confused but fairly seduced;Huge system, dirt cheap and certainly neat and clean. It doubles as a museum for Socialist realism with the usual depiction of communist values in a very realistic way. It moves an army of people daily with incredible efficiency. An amazing deeper-than-normal subway that is most definitely worth visiting.Given the nature of the service rendered, it was quite unexpected to find a blatant disregard for the needs of the physically challenged persons: lots of barriers at stations and passageways and no elevators or appropriate ramps. This is not only a concern for tourists but a major shortcoming for the main public transportation system of a big modern city.The sheer size and reach of the system - as evidenced through the system diagram with its multiple lines - makes it extremely useful to get around Moscow. With 50 Rubles you can take all the transfers you want and spend all the time you need moving around the downtown and the outskirts of the city. As a bonus and while transferring at most of the stations, you can enjoy a veritable massive display of art, mainly by notable figures of the Socialist realism. The directional signing is basically non-existent or badly implemented, always in Cyrillic script. Signs in English or at least Latin script is insignificant if at all provided. When you couple it with the trains speed and the singularity of the Russian language/alphabet, you are certainly bound for a very tricky guessing experience with a most probable result of hopeless frustration. All in all, this metro system is a remarkable engineering feat with a very commendable effort to provide aesthetic pleasure to a horde of people that use it as the main mean of transportation in a sizable metropolis like Moscow. It fails however to address the most basic services that a modern civilized society have come to expect, i.e., finding directions and having a friendly environment for all.;3;October 27, 2016
Best transport;It's hard to navigate if you're a foreigner, but the Moscow Metro is effective large and beautiful. During rush hours there are EXTREMELY many people and they are ALL in a big hurry :);4;October 27, 2016
A must visit place;This is amazing place. Just take metro card and recharge. You can roam around everywhere. No English, and be carefull to learn how to change station to station. Some stations have 3 layer station underground and u need to find where u have to board. Better find the Russian letter of ur destination before u enter metro and search for that. Thers is a color coding also whoch google will show you and easy to identify;5;October 27, 2016
Underground Museum;This is a must see activity when visiting Moscow. Each station has a different grandeur to its architecture and style, it was quite an experience and unexpected discovery. Plus the Moscow metro is very well maintained and spotless.;5;October 27, 2016
Interesting and convenient;A great way to get around Moscow.  Interesting decor in many of the stations.  Can get full during rush hour, but still faster than taxi in many instances.;4;October 26, 2016
Extremely efficient but waaaaahhhh!!! all signs & announcements in Russian only!;Trains seemed to come every couple of minutes so never a long wait. All stations and passageways very clean and not smelly. Well planned out with colour coding which really helps. Downsides - in many places stairs were the only option. Big suitcase didn't fit the wheelchair ramps so very hard work with luggage. Even though I had swotted the Cyrillic script, I found the particular narrow font on the signs hard to read. They didn't provide any signs in the Latin alphabet. Spoken announcements also only in Russian. If St. Petersburg can provide English and Latin alphabet why can't Moscow?There are supposed to be some very ornate stations but I didn't notice/ wasn't in  them.;4;October 26, 2016
Fast and efficient;Great system, clean cheap and very efficient. Buy your ticket (based on number of journeys). 50 Rubels each...touch entry gate and follow the signs   All tubes stop at each listed stop...easy and cheap;5;October 25, 2016
nice;very nice super neat stations ...very good ....although crowded  comfortable...stations each one have one speciality;5;October 25, 2016
Charming design of a metro station;We have been in sevral metro stations looking for special design and shapes. We loved specialy the folowing stations - Маяковская and Арбатская.;4;October 25, 2016
Grand Metro;A guided tour in the Metro was a part of our tour itinerary. For someone new to Russia it is easy to get lost as the changeovers are a bit complicated.Our tour guide did a excellent job bringing our entire group back.It is a must see but ofcourse with a guide;5;October 25, 2016
Like a museum;The Moscow Metro has a unique character as each station is quite different in decoration. I went to several stations and took pictures of the interesting walls, brass statues, ceiling lights, etc. It was like a museum at each of the stations that I went. Not a modern metro but it offers the tourists something more ie a piece of history and art.;4;October 25, 2016
Historic Station;Grand historic station, nice sculpture around. Tight security check upon entering the entry gates. Staffs don't speak English but lucky enough the ticketing machine came with EN version. Moscow Metro one of the worst metro system I ever encountered. Not even a single English signage to guide foreigner. All station names in Russian, announcement in Russian and even a newer train that with information panel also in Russian. Complicated transferred station as no EN guide. Hardly find any escalator and of course no lift at the station.;2;October 24, 2016
Marvellous Moscow Metro;On a recent visit to Moscow...a guided tour of the Metro was to be one of our activities....however, due to a massive traffic snarl (apparently not uncommon) when we arrived in Moscow by high speed train from St Petersburg, our transfer that had been arranged to take us to our hotel was unable to meet us. Instead, our guide said that as our hotel was only a few minutes walk from a Metro Station, we could catch a train . It turned out to be three trains on three different levels, and as it was also peak hour and trains were running at 30 second intervals, it had to be a finely tuned "military manoeuvre" to get us up and down the escalators and stairs to make the connections. Fortunately our Russian speaking guide was able to do just that and it was an unforgettable experience which we throughly enjoyed. We had little time to appreciate the magnificence of the Metro Stations, but we did get to our hotel safely, and also did get to take the guided tour a day later where we did take in the grandeur of  this incredible Metro system. A highlight of our visit and a must if visiting Moscow.;5;October 24, 2016
Huge, modern and artful;The Metro covers a huge portion of Moscow and they are adding to it. I visited a small new portion and saw the art arranged at different stations as well as mosiacs.Makes you feel like you are in an art gallery.;4;October 23, 2016
Opulent but not too user friendly;Yea, it is like an underground palace. Some stations are the most beautiful in the world. Guided tours in many languages but if you don't now Russian trips may be confusing.There are next station announcements in English in the train and the schemes also have English names together with Russian. But larger signs everywhere are only in Russian. But it is evolving, new stations are being built extending it to off Moscow circular road limits (to so-called "New Moscow"). If the new stations were less expensively decorated (tiles would be just enough, but they still use marble and similar stones), more lines could be added.;4;October 23, 2016
Beautiful transport!;The Moscow Metro was surprisingly straightforward to navigate considering that neither my husband or I speak Russian and absolutely everything is written in Russian with no English translation what's so ever. We found that by familiarising ourselves with the Russian alphabet we were able to get around. This really is a beautiful way to travel around Moscow and the trains are very frequent.;5;October 23, 2016
Worth visiting;Very few cities have subway stations that can be destinations in themselves, but Moscow is one of them. The ornate halls and decor are beautiful and artistic. Just try to learn some Cyrillic before going - very few of the signs in stations are in English so while you can easily get into the station, it may be harder to get out.;5;October 22, 2016
On time but..;Not a single word in English l. Such a non-tourist friendly that it makes the whole experience unbearable;2;October 22, 2016
Wow;Really impressive to see the Metro decor, ensure your comfortable with the Cyrillic alphabet as not much in English! !;5;October 21, 2016
Fairy Tales relived;The Most Beautiful and Revered Metro Stations in the World. We just couldn't stop clicking Photographs. The Amazing Structures and Architecture amazes You. Definitely Recommended;5;October 21, 2016
Amazing Metro Stations;Well if you do visit Moscow and even if you have your own way of transportation, Do whatever it takes to have a tour in Moscow's Metro stations you will just see how amazing they are.;5;October 21, 2016
They don't build them like they used to;These are some of the most beautiful subway stations I have ever seen. (I qualify this by saying I have never been to continental Europe.) Everything you have ever seen of these stations in images are true.But (the inevitable but) ..As a transport system, it is very efficient and effective. Even though the trains feel rickety at times because they feel old (when compared to more modern subway systems), I find that to be part of the charm. Though the platforms are filled with the smell of fuel when any train rolls in.We (more like just me, as my six-year old probably didn't really appreciate this part) experienced it, and it was difficult to take any pictures because, firstly, the masses of people using it means the moment you stand still you are obstructing, and, most of all, it is a dead giveaway that you are a tourist.;4;October 20, 2016
Go with a guide!;A must see if visiting Moscow for the first time! But go with a guide as there are several stories associated with the buildings and statues in many of these stations. I went with Moscow Private Tours and their guide was terrific. There is a reason why each statue is significant and why passer by passengers all touch them for blessings daily!;5;October 20, 2016
Incredible stations underground;Who ever thought that you could see such wonderful art underground?  The Moscow metro/subway system was efficient (trains moving every 1-3 minutes).  They stations and trains were clean, I felt safe, and cordial.  Even though there was no English  on the signs, one could find their way around if they had the right Russian locations written down and could find them on the maps.  Very impressive!;5;October 19, 2016
An amazing art gallery you ride through.;My first time in a subway where i was not horrified by the mess, crowds or smell.  This is a must see when in Moscow.  It is lovely. Each station is unique and very beautiful.  The train cars are art galleries.;5;October 19, 2016
Interesting and often beautiful;If you have a map you can navigate this metro system deep under Moscow. Several stations are quite beautiful. Cars can be very crowded so if you are a tourist try to avoid busy commute times.;4;October 19, 2016
A great way to get around;Our first night in Moscow we did a Metro tour. Every station is different and they amazing compared to the relatively bland stations you see in other countries. They are also really clean given the number of people using the trains every day. Trains come every few minutes but if you're travelling in a group, make sure you get on and off quickly. You only have about 45 seconds before the doors shut. Have a plan B if you get separated !;4;October 19, 2016
Fascinating!;A must see while staying in Moscow. Quiet mind-blowing steep escalators bring you down into a wonderful clean and majestic hall with beautiful designs. Absolutely worth a tour which will cost only a few rupees;4;October 18, 2016
Not your average tube stations!;Every metro station was different. Some were like museums, others like art galleries. Definitely get out and look at a few, you only pay to enter the metro system so platform hopping is OK. Note, all station names/signs in Russian only.;5;October 18, 2016
Impressive metro;Probably the most impressive metro in the world, in terms of "artistic style". Each station has its own unique character and decorations - most of them are rather imposing and representing the "grand socialist" style. Must see in Moscow!;5;October 18, 2016
Underground architechture masterpiece;This the one of the important place you should visit in Moscow. Must see. But make a plan for the visit as it is really huge. You may want to see the old-style stations like Komsomolskaya or Novoslobodskaya or recently created like Dostoevskaya or Marina Roscha. Both types have their own beauty. Being there watch the floor as most nice places for pictures are marked by red circles.;5;October 18, 2016
The most surprising Metro system in the world.;As I was working rather than holidaying in Moscow, I initially saw the metro as a convenient commuting facility. However, if one takes a trip outside the rush hours and takes time to look at the architecture in the stations a wholly different appearance comes to light.All the stations have a different theme, most are elaborate and give an air of old Russia as we in the west would expect to see.One word of advice, unless its really necessary, don't use the metro in busy commuting times - the lack of manners and respect for others is incredible - it could even be described as aggressive!   So an interesting Moscow feature, a convenient way to get around Moscow, but choose your times!;5;October 18, 2016
Metro;it is something so different and amazing.. we spent one whole morning traveling from one station to the other...  there are NO SIGNS in English... be prepared with a map in 2 languages so that you can compare.  people are helpful.;5;October 18, 2016
ART BELOW;A living gallery, where no expense was spared to create this impressive display of frescoes, murals and statues. Easy to navigate once you decipher the Russian alphabet by mapping your route and counting stations to the next stop.;5;October 18, 2016
Ambience is perfect but how to go again?;Please russian goverment please put more language in all trasportation.I will be back for sure but dont know how to understand all the sign.;4;October 18, 2016
Amazing decor!;Primarily a working, living underground system, but this couldn't be more different to the grotty London tube or countless others across Europe. A very deep system, with frighteningly steep, long escalators taking you 150metres into the bowels of Moscow, the stations are palacial in design. Sculptures, frescoes, chandeliers- they wouldn't look out of place a museum. Our tour guide filled us in on the stories behind some of the sculptures, including a dog's nose to touch for good luck. Well worth hopping on and off at a few platforms as the cost of a ride is cheap as chips (about 50p) as long as you don't leave the system.;4;October 17, 2016
Fascinating and totally unique;Surrounded by fullsized bronze sculptures at one station.Amazing stained glass at another. Chandeliers and art work decorating the ceiling. Marble floors and unending rows of collumns catch the eye while trains roared in and out and stopping every two minutes.Beauty and efficiency combined.;5;October 17, 2016
Worth it!;The Moscow Metro is definitely worth a visit, ideally with a guide who can explain things.  Many of the stations contain beautiful works of art and they are all amazingly clean.  I never would have guessed that a Metro system would be "tour worthy", but it really was - plus, it is a great destination rain or shine (or snow, or cold...)!   Even the people watching is fun - I found Moscow natives to be extremely stylish and fashionable (love their fall coats and boots).;5;October 16, 2016
Simply Awesome;As it happened actually went on two tours of the Moscow Metro.  As a Metro system it seamed to be as efficient and reliable (if not more so) than those found in other major world cities, also very cheap !!!  However the real plus of the system is the most amazing and AWESOME underground architecture, truly spectacular (and I was already expecting a lot from what I had previously heard).  Visited I guess about ten stations all different and all eye boggling.  Spotlessly clean as well.  An absolute must for any visit to Moscow.;5;October 16, 2016
A great tour in itself for the art work;We used the subway many times when staying there a week. One day we took the route that made a circle around the city, getting out at each stop to walk around and see the art that is all around you. Each station is different. The Ukraine stop was one of my favorites.  The escalators getting down to the subways were sooooo long. The escalator to the  station near the Great War (WWII) museum was a good 1000' long taking you to a little over 300' below the surface. A good place to be if a Minuteman 2 happens to land. Tragically a train went off the tracks at this station recently that took the life of a bunch of people. But don't let that keep you from going. When in Russia, act like a Russian!;4;October 15, 2016
The best metro in the world;Littered with Soviet relics and styles, this is more than a mode of transport for tourists and is worth seeing even if you don't ride it - but you'll need to anyway to get around the place;4;October 15, 2016
Very reliable;If you get the app you will get an exact timing of your trip to the minute everytime (considering you walk and don't have luggage or anything) , and it works offline too, however everytime I attempt to try the wifi it asks for my phone number and then I have to send a massage to a short number they give, saying 'ok' which never works because underground you often don't have service so it doesn't send. Otherwise the travelling is pretty straight forward, I have never been robbed or mugged but the halls can be dirty.;4;October 14, 2016
The Metros are each decorated differently;We took an organized tour (through Free Moscow Walking Tours) that was focused just on a few metro stations, but totally worth it!  You could do it on your own, but it is great for someone else to point out different murals, customs, explanations, history, etc for a variety of the metro stations;5;October 14, 2016
Totally indispensable for locals as me;Having been to many similar infrastracture institutions - in N.Y, Paris, London, Tokyo, Prague etc. I can frankly state it is definitively in Top 5. As per architecture thanks to Stalin Empire style is strongly distinguished meaning Central Moscow. Is much spacious than in any other huge city. It is safe, it is polite, it speaks both English and Russian. Unfortunately all exit guide signs are still only in Cyrillic characters. As the actual Mayor and his team are pushing car traffic out of Central Moscow by any means, Metro has recently become the only way to keep one's agenda in due time frames. What I don't like are those student age youngsters staring at their smartphones with their legs over one another fighting in that way for much privacy for their own and pretending to be all alone on the planet;5;October 14, 2016
I have no idea why they did it....;...but I am glad that they did. The Moscow metro/underground is without doubt the finest architecturally that I have ever seen. I truly do not understand why so much effort was made to construct the stations (at platform level) but you cannot help but be in awe of the grandeur of some was of the stations. It's as cheap as chips to ride on and although the signage is not very user friendly for us EU types, just getting lost down there can be an experience.;4;October 14, 2016
Nice metro;One may wonder why a metro tour? But each of the stations is so beautifully and uniquely done up that you wonder whether to stay back at each metro or continue your journey.Beware of rush hour traffic. This trip is best undertaken after 10:30 AM. You need to be alert and get on and off trains within 30 seconds.;5;October 14, 2016
Moscow Metro;Very beautiful cultural metro. It has 14 lines and 200 stations. It as a biggest and busiest metro ever.;5;October 13, 2016
9 million riders a day?;absolutely a must do if in Moscow.  the art work in many of the "circle" stations is simply incredible.  we were told 9 million ride the metro every day and a peak rush hour trains come and go every 45 seconds.  don't know if thats true but after visiting i can believe it.;5;October 13, 2016
Amazing place;Literally the best metro I've ever been on. I love the notion that art should be made available to the masses on their daily commute. It's really cheap and very impressive- the arty stations are in the center ans listed in books-or on the Web. Slight note that the stations on the map have Cyrillic and Latin but in the station just Cyrillic so remember that if you're using it.;5;October 13, 2016
Very Efficient, Very Beautiful;Bustling always,  a visit to the Metro is a efficient way to commute. At 30 rub it's a cost effective option. The architecture is brilliant.;5;October 13, 2016
work of love;If I am not mistaken, the marvelous stations where created by young patriotic Russians. They are really works of art. Lucky Moscovites to have nice metro stations.;5;October 13, 2016
Great work of the train station in the world;This is art, architecture, culture and everything. You just pay to enter once and travel to many stations as you wish. I'd been to 10 of them and really satisfied. The metro in Russia isn't complicated at all.;5;October 13, 2016
Best way through Moscow;Instead of sitting in endless traffic jams, this is fast and reliable. In winter it is nice and warm and gives a break from snowy and dirty streets;4;October 13, 2016
Grandiose architecture;One is not expecting such Grand architecture in metro. Sometimes look as an interior of a palace with marble, chandeliers, monuments. On the other side equipment is over used, and quite old. Typical contradictions of Russia;3;October 12, 2016
Amazing Stations;Each station is decorated with a different theme. The lighting/chandeliers are unique in each station. Recommend taking a tour to see them and get to know the history. Our guide was Nataliya, (English speaking) We contacted her and was able to get a tour for the following day. I will try to add contact info as photo.;5;October 12, 2016
You cannot imagine the underground spectacle;You will probably get lost, so take drink and snack and enjoy the ride, the stations are truly glorious! Bronze statues, marble carved benches AND CLEAN!! No advertising underground either and people so helpful!;5;October 12, 2016
Amazing;Bring your camera and video for outstanding art work in a dozen or so stations.Go when it's not in rush hour as locals can be a little miffed;5;October 12, 2016
The escalators are the show stealer !;Works like a charm even with people who dont know russian. If you can make sense of a few russian letters and have the metro map , you can count the number of stations between you and your destination and voila you reach ! The scale of the escalators can be intimidating in the beginning (honestly scary !) But it gets like a fun ride as you do more trips !;4;October 12, 2016
Unique;Visited several stations on the metro. A uniqu experience especially the mosaics and the depiction of Russian life. Well worth a visit;5;October 11, 2016
art place;It's more than a subway. some stations are very architectural and full of painting, statue and ...It's very nice place;3;October 10, 2016
Fast & furious;Wifi, speed and useful navigation. + you can reach several lines of other city transport networks and send some packages via metro.;3;October 10, 2016
Worth Checking Out;Certainly one of the nicest subways I have ever seen. The stations have Soviet era art work and bronze statues. Best stops I remember are near the Bolshoi and Red Square.;3;October 9, 2016
The best subway I have been to;Looooved it! It is clean with FREE wifi on board (you just need to sign up once and everytime you travel you get a pretty fast free wifi). Some of the metro stations are museum-like quality with ostentatious candelabras and heavy granite and marble;5;October 9, 2016
Engineering at its best;This is a journey you must make....Visit every station you can on the circle and towards the centre the architecture is amazing.;5;October 9, 2016
Any European Metro;Nothing really much, but is definately not as easy as Dubai's metro, very complicated specially when you don't know Russian ... lmao;3;October 9, 2016
Who would have though the train stations could be so amazing;The train stations are beautiful monuments in their own right - a must see for any tourist to Moscow.;5;October 8, 2016
Fast and fabulous;We wanted to see the metro as we had read about how amazing it was so we bought a ticket from the kiosk explaining we were on holiday and just wanted to see some stations. We were sold a 50 rubble ticket each and proceeded to follow the commuters.  The escalators are fast and most travellers are rushing, obviously taking for granted the murals and statues.We were pleased we had made the time to visit and recommend it for others.;4;October 8, 2016
fast and safe mode of transport;we were in Moscow for 6 days and used the metro quite a lot you can buy a ticket for as many trips you require at very low prices the metro stations are beautiful  plus there is now a pink line which goes overground it circles the outside of the city and accepts your metro ticket. one word of warning the maps that you print off at home are no good download yandex metro to your smart phone to help navigate the system which can be a bit of a trial. if in doubt as a local even if they dont speak your language just point on map where you want to go and they help.;4;October 8, 2016
Cheap and stunning!;What can you say about the Moscow metro?Both extremely cheap (500 roubles lasted an entire week) and visually stunning, it is a wonderful way to get around. Be sure to stop and take a moment to take it all in, really a very interesting place to people watch.If travelling in summer, be sure to take plenty of water as it does get very hot!;5;October 7, 2016
If only New York were like this;I've been on lots of mass transit in my day, but this is one of a kind.  Something the Soviets did right.;5;October 7, 2016
Art deco design;Unbelievable beautiful. A real  piece of art. Very inexpensive to travel around Moscow. And super clean;5;October 7, 2016
Amaizing metro stations;The Moscow metro stations tour we took was one of the amazing sites we saw at Moscow. From the partisans statue to the Stained Glass metro, a very eye catching stations sites.;5;October 7, 2016
Out of this world;Architecture not seen before, everything is bigger in Russia. Look out for Romulus and remus. Found throughout the network;5;October 6, 2016
Fantastic architecture and decoration, a must see;Apparently around 9.7 million passengers catch the Moscow underground each day or around 2.5 billion per annum. It is busy. At the suggestion of a friend I took a series of rides during the early evening when crowds are smaller. The 4 stations I visited were all decorated with monuments commemorating various people and/or groups that played an important role in building the Soviet Union. The art work often using small tiles is exquisite and in some places there are places marked from which you will get the best photo opportunities. Extensive use is made of marble including a bust of Lenin at one station.;5;October 6, 2016
Metro stations museums in Moscow!!!!;While in Moscow ensure you visit as many metro stations as possible as each and every station is different from the others and each station is like a museum with lots of people moving about particularly at peak hours and I loved it!!YouenterMoscow metro by escalator- must be the longest escalator ride in the world- no wonder Moscow metro was used as a bomb shelter during the second patriotic war!!Once at the bottom just take any train and RIDE... ensure you get out at every station and absorb everything you see- allow at very least two full days on this unusual sightseeingYou' ll see history of the great country unrevel in front of yo hand you are part of it: unbelievable architecture combined with modern braves lines and fast moving trains leaves unforgettable picture!!!And people are very friendly: you just can't get lost in there even if your Russian lingo is zero!!People not only explain youwhat to do but may take you by the hand and show you where to goLots of people speak English particularly young one- so do not fear go for it!!Some stations are very artistic and majestic with unforgettable atmosphereMoscow metro must be the best in the world as I rode in metro in London, Paris and other cities but Moscow wins this race!!!Please visit it and you'll have memories for the life time!;5;October 5, 2016
Beautiful Stations;Good see at least 3-5 stations on the Moscow Metro, just ask your hotel to help you see which ones are the best.  The Metro in some places is very deep adding to the fun.  Some of the stations are very grand and feel so Russian!  Its worth a few minutes of your time!!!;5;October 5, 2016
Get a guide and see it;Large spacious and very clean. Was really interesting.  Trains are very comfortable and run about every 90 seeconds;5;October 5, 2016
Visit for the art?;Our local guide took us on a tour of the subway stations to show us the art from the Soviet era. Art as propaganda with idealized scenes of Soviet life. But makes beautiful subway stations.;3;October 4, 2016
RUSH HOUR IS AN EXPERIENCE;Many of the Metro stops are very grand in their design but if you are travelling during rush hour this is an experience. Long queues outside the Metro waiting to get in and literally thousands of people queuing to get on the escalators to get out. It's hard to navigate at first but you soon get used to the system.;4;October 4, 2016
A great rainy day activity;The Moscow metro is probably one of the best sights in the city.  Most of the stations have been done up and have really interesting décor.  The best way to make sure you see all must-see stations is to use Google to find a route or take a tour.  This attraction is great for rainy days.;5;October 4, 2016
Easy, beautiful, but oh - so crowded;The metro gets you pretty much everywhere in Moscow and some of the stations are worth a visit. But - it's hot and crowded and might be exhausting.  Also you won't see Moscow, travelling underground. If you travel with children, make sure you keep them close by. It's not easy to travel with a pushchair.;5;October 3, 2016
Must visit!!!;No visit to Moscow is complete without visiting the amazing subway system known as their Metro.  Challenging at first but you quickly learn how to ride and it is an interesting time every time you ride.  People are so cold and never smiling; but, you sense the same humanity that is present in all the world.;4;October 3, 2016
Extraordinary Metro! Must see!;Taking the metro in Moscow is a bit of an adventure, as everything is indicated in cyrillic. But you have to do it! The metro-platforms are an architectural artwork, just like the rest of the city! We've followed the route which was advised by Lonely Planet,  which we enjoyed. We only didn't finished it (we stopped at Teatralnaya).;4;October 3, 2016
No 1 Underground in the world;Do get onto the green line and hop on and off at most of the stations-- the murals and statues are well worth seeing. I would check a guide book of the best stops..fortunately we had a guide with us. As to be expected all the signs are in Russian but I have a feeling that by the World Cup in 2018 they will be in Russian and English;5;October 3, 2016
A great way to get around and also a tourist site;Very efficient, inexpensive and easy to master.  A few very beautiful stations.  Need Russian and English  maps to get around for now.  English is being printed on all metro stations and announcements in English due to the World Cup in 2018.  Look at overhead signs to determine the train's directions. Look on the floor for signs to determine train transfer directions.;5;October 3, 2016
Moscow Underground (Metro);Many stations are absolutely amazing. Shows up the London Underground. In terms of travel. One price ticket (So you could tavel all day without exit). Trains very frequent. You need to research the most Picturesque stations first.;5;October 3, 2016
Underground Sovjet museum;Absolute beautiful and  interesting to see the Sovjet period in art. we took a guid from Kremlin tours and was a good experience.;4;October 3, 2016
Historical in nature;Certain stations like Ploschad Revolutesii are worth spending time in, admiring the statues; the one at Arbatskaya have awesome "chandeliers" adorning the ceiling. Well-constructed stations reflect Soviet pride of bygone days and today leave behind these symbols for visitors to enjoy.;5;October 3, 2016
Get a tour or a good guide book to get the most out of the experience;Amazing and surprising, with often moving and significant stories behind the station decorations. Would recommend a guided tour to start and then visit again at leisure, exploring in more detail. Avoid the busiest times of day;5;October 2, 2016
Extremely interesting;The Moscow Metro is a feast of architectural brilliance. No advertising here! Masses of murals and chandeliers. Needs a local guide on this tour.;5;October 2, 2016
Commuting makes your day;The stations from Ploshchad Revolyutsii/Teatralnaya to Komsomolskaya station are all gems. It is worth getting off the train to each of these stations. Commuting and watching such beauty around you really makes your day!;5;October 2, 2016
Piece of art underground;Compare was never good but this subway is a piece of art compared with this of main European capital, specially Paris. Be aware  all indication are in Russian and don't miss it;5;October 2, 2016
Amazing;Moscow underground is an absolutely amazing due to the beauty of its central stations, which have rich decorations. It is also one of the most efficient in the world, as it serves 9-10 mln people daily. Trains come every 30-40 seconds in rush hours. However I would visit underground after 9 pm, when there is no crowd and you can observe the stations with comfort.;5;October 2, 2016
Cleanliness aside... I am amazed by the frequency!;Yes... some stations are very nice... just like a museum (they use recycled materials from old Cathedrals).  That I already read about and knew. But what surprises me is how frequent the trains are.  We typically waited less than a minute!The signs are all in Russian though.  So make sure you download a map with both Russian and English station names.  That helps a lot.  Other than that... it is a very efficient way to get around Moscow.  We bought the 20-ride ticket and shared among us (allowed)... so the price is less than 50cts per ride.  Awesome!;4;October 1, 2016
Unbelievable Stations;The metro is a highly efficient train system with many unbelievably beautiful and unique stations.  I come from the San Francisco bay area in the USA and our subway system pales in comparison to Moscow's.  The Moscow trains run every 1.5 minutes or so (compared to our BART which runs every 1/2 hour to hour).  The Metro stations are so beautiful that they feel as if you are in one of Russia's ornate  palaces (BART stations are dirty and smell of urine). The cost to ride the metro is a flat rate of 50 rubles (appr. 80cents usd) regardless of your destination or distance. This makes it so much more convenient and simple to use as public transportation.  It also makes for a fun, relaxing and inexpensive sightseeing experience in Moscow.;5;October 1, 2016
Must see for Moscow Trip;Every station like a museum and everybody in Moscow must visit these stations ,Excellent statues ,decorations;5;October 1, 2016
Underground measeum;It's just less than euro for visitting the greates measeum you've ever seen. Architects and sculptors made something really amazing there. Every station inside the kolcevaya is like a measeum hall and many others  too. Every each has its own style it's  like a lot of beautiful stories. You should see it cause you'll never beleive me.;5;October 1, 2016
Moscow Metro is fantastic;The Metro is very easy to use.  People are polite and fellow travellers stand for the elderly or infirm.  The Metro stations are a wonder and I do agree more like a museum.  Worthwhile travelling from station to station just to get a look at the variety and craftsmanship of the paintings, sculptures, mosaics and history.;5;September 30, 2016
Epic stations;Great Way to observe stations from Stallin time. Also for travel thru the city this Is best, fastest and cheapest option.;4;September 30, 2016
Amazing arcitecture;As part of the tour this is well worth doing, it sound train spotting-ish but boy will you be surprised and amazed we were treated to special stations and seeing is believing, what drew me to see it was when Joanna Lumley did a Tran Siberian train ride ending in Moscow and she went to one of the stations where she did a modelling shoot and as she said it was stunning;5;September 30, 2016
Moscow Metro;Moscow Metro is very convenient to use. Only negative is that all the stations names are only in Russian and you battle to find your way around. Definitely the most beautiful metro buildings I have ever been in!;4;September 30, 2016
It is like a museum;One of the most outstanding features of Moscow is its Metro. It is spectacular, and it costs virtually nothing to view it. It is both a working metro system and a museum of Russian art depicting the Imperial era and the Soviet era. A must see!;5;September 29, 2016
Museum on the go!;Each station has its own story with intrigue history. You can clearly see the layers of time passing by each station. A metro trip is must for history, art lovers.;4;September 29, 2016
Convenient, clean and just beautiful;Decorated with mosaics, paintings, sculptures and carvings - just beautiful.  AND it's useful and convenient for transportation although you may spend time looking at all the sights at each station and miss your train.;5;September 28, 2016
Beautiful!;Some of the metro station are beautiful!!! you really can feel the art environment. It is like walking in a free museum during your journey!;5;September 28, 2016
Must see;Great for getting around and so cheap it's almost free. Stations are all worth a good look at - everyone has something to offer in historical and design terms;5;September 28, 2016
Try It!;We were a bit apprehensive about using the Moscow Metro, but since using a taxi is a risky proposition in Russia, and we had no cell service to call for Uber, we gave the Metro a try. There is an English option on the ticket machines, which was great. The stations themselves are beautiful and very clean. Same with the trains. They are all color coded, which makes it easier for non-Russian speakers. Everyone is very quiet and respectful on the trains, and men really do give up their seats to women or children.;5;September 28, 2016
Not Your Average Subway Stations;Stalin wanted the subway to be a Russian showcase for visitors, and he pulled out the stops here.  Best to use a guidebook or have a guide to the best metro stops.  You will find artwork that turns the subway stations into museums.  The fare to enter is very inexpensive, and you can travel anywhere, transfer as much as you like, and stay as long as you want.  Just one warning however, there are no restrooms anywhere in the system.  The metro is an inexpensive way to get around the city.  The trains are frequent, the system is easy to use.  And the artwork is definitely worth a visit.;4;September 28, 2016
Inevitable visit (and mean of transport in Moscow);Having visited a lot of metros in different cities, Moscow's one is definitely the most beautiful in the world so far (I have been to only 44 countries...)! It is a whole museum and you won't regret your visit;5;September 28, 2016
The Ring Line;Once you learn to read Russian the subway map will be the most important thing to go anywhere. The ring line helps alot in getting extra time instead of taking the lines crossing the town. Amazing stations and many references for movies-buffs.;5;September 28, 2016
Underground Moscow;There are a number of Moscow Metro stations that are worth visiting (about 10 - the rest you just use because they help you get places). The effort that has been put into dressing up certain stations is amazing - with mosaics, paintings, statues, chandeliers, busts, etc. It was mainly done in the 1930s and is largely heavy communist propaganda but interesting now for its historical insights. The names are difficult as they are mainly written in Cyrillic - but take the challenge. I felt quite safe and encountered no problems even though I was taking many pictures and often walking in the opposite direction to the throngs of locals going about their daily travels. And its really cheap - you just need one ticket for a half-day's, or all day, travelling (as long as you don't go out of the system);5;September 27, 2016
Best Metro stations I have ever visited;I would never have believed that the Metro of a major city could be an attraction in its own right.  The Metro stations we visited were all  large, clean and full of interesting and beautiful mosaics relevant to their history.  We visited several as we travelled around Moscow and enjoyed them all.  The system is cheap (50 roubles (60 pence) per journey and you present your ticket at your departure station.  You can then travel anywhere.  My advice would be to research your journey before you leave the UK, the station names are in Russian and it is not as easy as the London Underground to find your way around.We had an App to translate Russian into English and whilst that helped in restaurants, it was not easy on the underground.  If you treat it as an adventure and don't mind getting a little lost it is great value.;4;September 27, 2016
Wonderful experience;This is not the easyestmetro system to get around on. A lack of English signs makes it difficult. Staff tend to be very rude and unhelpful. However there are a few staff who are helpful but very few. I find asking the younger Moscovites who ride the system tend to be more helpful with directions and advice. The best part is just enjoying the way the stations are designed.  Some beautiful statues , paintings and fittings. Worth just going there just to see the stations;3;September 27, 2016
My Biggest Suprise in Russia;My wife and I took a Rive Cruise from St Petersburg to Moscow. We met some great people and learned (at least we were told) a lot of history. I had expected that our visit to the Hermitage would be the highlight but was disappointed (see my review). We passed through the 2 largest lake in Europe and traversed 17 Lock& Dams. What turned out to be the highlight of the tour was the Moscow Metro built by Stalin in the 30's. The subway stations in Moscow are actual woks of art. I am an Engineer but everyone in our group was blown away. The stations are spotless and very comfortable. Our guide took at night to avoid the crowds and we took several lines and all the trains were on time and ran on less than 5 minute intervals. It is well worth your time to visit several stations. There is one "problem" in that there are no restrooms at any station. This was not an oversight. They did not want people standing around underground and in Russia you DO NOT use the corners!;5;September 27, 2016
Old school architecture yet super efficient;I love that each station had a unique design and the details were all so surprising!  Great for a rainy day or night visit, we also used the Metro for daily travel and found service to be amazingly frequent and the system pretty easy to use.  Cheap too!  Each trip is 50R or about 90 cents USD. Can't beat it.;5;September 27, 2016
Museum in Metro Station;You feel that you are in the museum , while entering the metro stations in Moscow. every station has its own gallery and arts.;4;September 27, 2016
Makes getting anywhere easy!;We used the Moscow metro heavily during our recent five-day visit. Knowing the Slavic alphabet helped immensely - though the on-train signage is bilingual. Much of the signage within the stations, however, is not bilingual, and so figuring out which side to board on might be challenging for someone who cannot read the Russian language. Finding the correct metro line is easy, however, as they are numbered.;5;September 27, 2016
Nice history and architecture;Subway stations can be so beautiful was never thought. Our tour guide took us to this station, took a ride to few stations and back. The guide gave us the tour of a few stations which were indeed beautiful and explained us about the history. Its a good short trip;4;September 27, 2016
It's a Moscow must!;You cannot come to Moscow and not enjoy the most beautiful metro system in the world! Go and explore the beautiful stations which host the most incredible mosaics and statues!;5;September 27, 2016
Go back in time;Moscow Metro is one of the rare things in \Rusiaa, that funcition smooth and you can relay on. Always clean, on time, but  sadly a bit overcrowded.Still it is the best way, often also the fastest, to get from one part of Moscow to other. But the main atraction for me, were all the mosaics on the ceilings. Most of them are from "glorious" communist times and therefore with predictable themes.Mosaics together with arhitecture of stations will give you sense of old soviet Russia.;4;September 26, 2016
The most beutiful metro;Everyone heard that Moscow metro is the most beautiful in the world! I agree with this view. My favourite station is Sretinsky bulvar. The wall is decorated with mozaics with the F. Dostoevsky's heroes. When you walk round this station,it sems, you walk with Raskolnikov and Myshkin. I really amire this station!  I suggest everyone visit this station! :);5;September 26, 2016
A must visit place while in Moscow;It is supposed to be a transportation system, but it is a must see tourist attraction on itself. Every station is different, and many of them, especially those centrally located, are really beautiful. Visit the metro, even if you do not need a ride.;4;September 26, 2016
Easy to get anywhere;Fastest transport in Moscow. You can see old, soviet Design and Architecture. İn New wagons there is internet connection.;5;September 26, 2016
Palaces under the city;Go a Metro tour as a great introduction to the wonderful architecture beneath the city.Each station is ornate and has a different story to tell.;5;September 26, 2016
Beautiful, efficient...but too loud;Moscow metro is literally underground palace or museum, whatever you want to call it. Each station has its own style and personality, and you can also see the history from the decoration of metro stations.However, the trains are so loud, both the engine and the door closing...spending 2 hours underground doing the metro tour drove me crazy!;4;September 26, 2016
Another Moscow Must see;The various Moscow Metro stations are like mini museums. I saw 6, each one beautiful. Another thing is that they all were amazingly clean. No liter and no bums.A Moscow must see.;5;September 25, 2016
clean and efficient;very nicely decorated metro system, nice stations, very clean and a metro every 1 1/2 to 2 minutes, top!;5;September 25, 2016
Feel SSSR;It is the most unique place to see in Moscow. Every station has its own characteristic. Try to use it not in rush time of the city. It is over crowded in such hours. It is also better not to use it late at night (even now it is more safe than before). If you know krilic alphabet and if you have a map it is not difficult to use metro. There is an application for smart phones which makes it easier to use the metro. If you will use it as your daily public transportation, then it will become a little bit boring and you will feel tired because of its atmosphere.;5;September 25, 2016
Not to be missed;You won't believe the metro tour do not miss out truly spectacular .  You feel like you are In a stately home.;5;September 25, 2016
You MUST see the Moscow Metro. Each station is a separate work of art.;You MUST see this. Each station is an art gallery. Not to be missed - hire a guide. Loved it. Graham and Sarah - Newbury.;5;September 25, 2016
Best metro;We have heard before visiting that its best to stay away from metro in Moscow. Completely disagree. Its a must see! Beautiful architecture. The only downside is language. Trip that meant to take us 10 mins turned into an hour adventure;5;September 25, 2016
It's everything you hear and more...;You cannot go to Moscow and not experience their metro... From escalators that slowly inch down into what feels like the center of earth to murals, lighting, arches, people, etc. It's a no-miss experience.;5;September 25, 2016
Some stations are amazing;We have been in several different stations that are very special. Some of them with painting on the wall and other with statues of soldiers and normal russian people. Wonderful.;5;September 25, 2016
Busy busy busy;We did a trip of the metro stations and they are truest the people's palaces with amazing decorations Metro have machines that convert to English -very easy to navigate but quite a few stairs and escalators Lots of people do like any mass transit system you need your wits around you;4;September 25, 2016
What a surprise...;Truly amazing architecture. Take a trip on the tube a buy a single ticket and ride around all of the interesting stops they can be found on Google. It costs very little for a ticket and can be enjoyed for most of the day. Defiantly one of the best experiences in Moscow.;5;September 25, 2016
Comvenient, beautiful but loud;Very beautiful, the most beautiful in the world! Convenient and cheap too.The only drawback, it's louder than other metros in europe.Still, you can't visit Moscow and not ride the metro;4;September 24, 2016
A unique Experience;You have to visit the superb Marble underground stations. A marvel of construction. Not to be missed;5;September 24, 2016
Moscow Metro.;The Metro is exciting. No english. You need to study the map first to get used to the Stn names. It gets to be fun. It's really really deep. The Stns are very fancy. The trains move like rally cars -very fast.Spend an hour on Sunday (small numbers) just riding around.;4;September 23, 2016
Most beautiful metro in the world;I love organization of this metro rings and center it's so correctly situated ! It's so beautiful ! Free wifi the only things it's hot and sometimes smelly..;4;September 23, 2016
Great convenience;Great for getting around Moscow once you understand signs and very cheap.  There is a tour available that explains signs and routes that I did not take.  I made several mistakes, but you can take another train back to your starting point within 10 minutes.;5;September 23, 2016
Old but good;Moscow metro you can go everywhere faster than taxy , bus etc etc . Outside too much traffic for move on the street so take METRO;5;September 22, 2016
Inexpensive way to view art and history.;We visited four different stations with a guide, who explained the history. Take a guided tour or read up on the highlights. Well worth doing.;5;September 22, 2016
Immaculate, Spectacular Architecture, Joy to Use;Every station has a different design based on a historical communist Russia theme.  Marble and chandeliers, of course.  But a working metro with lots of passengers.  We could learn something about how to keep our metros as clean and efficient.;5;September 20, 2016
WOW;Wonderful to see some of the amazing art inside the metro, not to mention how easy it is to get around.  Make sure your metro map is in the Cyrillac alphabet, tho.;5;September 20, 2016
Cheap, Fast, Efficient!!;Not only cheap, fast and efficient but clean too and we never waited more than 2 minutes for a train! Once we had got our heads around how to use the metro, we used it a lot. Get a good metro map that shows the stations in Cyrillic and English. Look for the number of the line you want, look for the colour of the line you want and then look for the end station. If the end station is only shown in Cyrillic then make up a name that looks a bit like it so that you can recognise it. Then count the stops you need on the train to your destination! It worked a treat and we got to see some wonderful stations. Some are very beautiful, some are quite austere but all are interesting. Try not to use the metro in the rush hours. Take your time, there is no rush, another train will arrive very soon! Highly recommended.;5;September 20, 2016
Metroseum;Each metro station is a different museum. It is impressive how huge can be a metro station in moscow. You must see dostoievsky station, each wall is a different scène of a novel. Increible!;5;September 20, 2016
Worlds most effective and interesting transportationsystem!;Stay away from rush hour! But else, use it as a cheap and easy way to get around in Moscow! And remember to always study how different each metro/stop is from eachother! Real art!;4;September 19, 2016
The noisiest metro in the world!;You must know Russian to read all signs and names of the stations. There is nothing in English. Very uncomfortable for foreigners and tourists.;1;September 19, 2016
Wonderful stations;It's a nice and hard places to visit. It's nice because you will be able to see beautiful station with historical elements. It's hard because it's all in Russian. You have to try.;5;September 19, 2016
Metro stations on a grand scale;I went to about 10 metro stations, they were amazing. The escalators are very steep and go a long way down. The metro stations are worth a visit, it was a highlight of my trip.;5;September 19, 2016
Great place;Definitely worth a visit though try to be aware of the commuters. The groups of tourists tended to be oblivious to the people trying to get to work. But a brilliant historical statement..    the artwork intended to capture the contribution if the common man to the Soviet nation is great. Loved it.;5;September 19, 2016
Quite amazing for a Metro;Some of the hallways were more like palaces.  Well worth visiting.  The metro is easy to use as each line is well identified and trains seemed to run the whole length of the line.  Trains are frequent and not too crowded.  We were warned to close and cover our bags and wallets to protect us from thieves.  Look for the very attractive paintings in the hallways and the very long escalators.;5;September 19, 2016
Metro whirlwind;Within a span of 3 hours we had a whirlwind tour of the most elegant metro stations.  We were fortunate to have an English speaking guide who guided us through buying tickets (it's real cheap).  Jumping from one platform to another.  Train to train and explaining in detail the intricate artwork and designs of the stations. Though the trains were old. They were comfy n not crowded.  The artwork is fantastic. And a must for u to view all of them.   But u really need someone to bring u around.  If not u will land up in Siberia.  Haha.  Wonderful Russian history on display.;4;September 19, 2016
" A Perfect 10";After taking a guided tour, last year, of the metro system in St Petersburg we decided to develop our own tour of the Moscow Metro because this allowed us to spend as much time as we wanted in each station we visited. Before venturing on developing your own tour I suggest you learn to read the Cyrillic alphabet and/or have a translation application program. However, we noticed that some stops were announced in both Russian and English. Additionally, look down not up while moving around a metro stop and you will find arrows with Numbers showing the way from line to line at a transfer station. We used this extensively while on our tour and in using the metro system in general.We researched what have been described as the most beautiful, artful, famous metro stops on the entire system. we identified the key ones on the Brown (5) Line and the Green (2) line to simplify our movement between lines at metro station transfer points. We decided to simply retain the other stops for another metro tour io Moscow. The metro maps available in color are the basic tool for locating and sequencing the stops you want to include in your tour.The integrated transportation system offers a variety of tickets and passes which include rides on the metro system. We chose the unlimited 30 day TROYKA plan to use for our tour and our total public transportation needs while in Moscow.We included the following Metro station in our tour via this sequence: Kiyevskaya,. Krasnopresnenskaya, Belorusskaya, Mayakovskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Prospekt Mira and Komsomol'skaya. The entire tour length only took three hours and we were able to photograph everything we wanted to at each platform. The Moscow metro system was the safest system we have experienced in any city we have visited. The number of police at every platform was appreciated. The stations are clean, no litter, and what immediately jumps out "NO  GRAFFITI" or signing on walls or the sides of the metro cars. This shows me the pride the Russian people have and the respect for what the system gives them. Safe, cost effective, clean transportation while being able to enjoy the artwork.;5;September 19, 2016
Definitely a place to visit;I would advise you to take a tour because there are NO English signs and there are many lines, so you can easily get lost.  The most notable thing I noticed is how deep the subway goes.  The guide told us that it was designed this way just in case it had to be used as shelters during the war.The stations are like mini-museums.  It is a definite visit.  But beware that it is very noisy, very busy, and you need to move fast;5;September 18, 2016
unbelievable;Could not get over their metro stations....marble everywhere, beautiful chandeliers. Extremely clean, graffiti was not to be found.make our metro stations look like slums!!!;5;September 18, 2016
a real treasure;WOW...Never seen such a subway like in Moscow. .very clean, very impressive a resl treasure..amaxing mozaic design not to speak about the painting on yhe wall and ceiling. ..a memorable experience. ..;5;September 18, 2016
Oh my God, it is very efficient and very clean!;I live in New York City and I take its metro nearly every day. It is old, but not as old is the Moscow Metro. The New York City metro has newer trains than the Moscow Metro, yet unlike the NYC metro, the Moscow Metro is very clean and very efficient. The trains ran every 1.5 minutes during rush hour. Not once – not once did The train stop in the middle of the tunnel – with the announcement "ladies and gentlemen were being held momentarily...due to train traffic ahead of us we apologize for the inconvenience". I was shocked, but I was mostly shocked at how clean the system is. Nobody in Russia litters! Not even the homeless people! Lord knows disrespectful Americans litter and the homeless people urinate, defecate and do whatever in the NYC metro. It must be Russian national pride and why her metro and Moscow as a whole is very clean. We all know what United States has no national pride. And dig this, many of the Moscow metro stations are built like palaces with wonderful art. Now the caveat is that if you do not know the Russian alphabet, you will be screwed in navigating the  Moscow metro system, but rest of sure there is a small probability that you would run into somebody in the Moscow Metro who Moscow Metro speaks English. But to be safe, learn the Russian alphabet and the Moscow Metro is safe too - which should not be a surprise as the Russian police don't play that.;4;September 18, 2016
Amazing;Definitely worth a visit. I use day trip ticketJust be aware that despite the availability of elevator, most people to use the stair;5;September 18, 2016
Part of a tour, a fun way to see the Moscow metro;Serving over 9 million riders a day, the metro is a great way to get around the vast city and the artwork, tiles, selfie positioning spots add to the fun! Signage was usually in Russian but some lines are adding English to signage and announcements. Young adults offer their seats to senior citizens. Nice!;4;September 18, 2016
Frequent, unique and effective transportation in the city;When you first see Moscow Metro, first , dont' judge from its exterior, although it looks old but it's very effective, cheap, and fast. I haven't seen any metro that comes very frequent like this, at least you will wait for 2-5 mins to next train, but in Moscow, look like the train comes every 1-2 mins.Be reminded, if you plan to explore the city by metro, you need to walk a lot, you will spend time walking on ground, from ground to underground, from place to metro station. I stay 4 days and each day i walked (recorded from my iPhone App), 13.5 km, 14.5 Km, 15 KM, 9 KM, visited only 1-2 places. Once you arrive the platform, the travel time is very short, as i said you will spend time in walking from ground to underground and interchange.;5;September 18, 2016
Underground Metro;I loved the architecture of it!! design and quality adding the value that it is very old and I never had any coincidences during my visit such as If its unsafe. Dog status looks like German Shepherd everyone touches it before they touch it they do wish for a desire or something.;5;September 18, 2016
Art & Culture Whilst commuting;Had an orientation tour of a few metro stops.  Although there are no signs in English you can easily work out which stations you need to go to from the metro map.  There are over 200 stations in Moscow and the Brown line circle is the one to use to view the beautiful interiors.   Very cheap, regular trains.  Use the metro wherever you can as the traffic is horrendous. Don't forget to count the stops - no announcements in English yet, but there will be in time for the World Cup.Don't use flash photography.  Security came up to me speaking in Russian but our guide at the time could respond!!Avoid rush hour from 5 p.m. onwards - however trains are every 30 seconds then;4;September 18, 2016
A must see;Just Google the 10 most beautiful Moscow Metro Station, purchase a 1 day ticket (210 rubles) and enjoy. Great for a rainy day (not rare in Moscow). It should take about 3-4 ours depending on how fast you move. Many stations do not have any other language than Russian, but if you are used to metro around the world, you will find yourself. You can also take a tour, but it is a must see in Moscow;5;September 18, 2016
A Collection of Architectural Masterpieces;Many of the subway stations within the center of Moscow are architectural masterpieces. Some of the metro stations look like museums with beautiful arches, dramatic artwork, and crafted light fixtures.  The metro stations are remarkably clean and beautiful.  Take part of the day and ride the metro to different stops and just admire the architecture.  I found the metro stations to be just as beautiful as the cathedrals but more exciting because they are filled with the life of Moscow in motion.;4;September 17, 2016
Fabulous!;We spent a happy couple of hours touring the metro stations. We were lucky enough to have a guide but should be easy enough to do on your own. For 50rubles you can go from station to station for as long as you like. Every station is different. We were told about how some of the mosaics were changed to remove images of Stalin. It would be good to collect some info before you go - with before and after pictures if you do not have a guide.;5;September 17, 2016
Very convenient;It's one of the public transportations that you can rely on in Moscow. It's cheap and clean. Even though the sign is a bit difficult to read since it's all in Russian but once you get used to it it's quite easy to get around. Most of the halls inside are interesting. If you have time, just take the brown line it will go in a circle- most of them have very beautiful interior.;4;September 17, 2016
Art  and Culture in Moscow Metro;We enjoyed seeing the art, lighting and marble work of the Moscow Metro. Over nine million ride the Moscow Metro. Komsomolskay, Prospekt Mira, Novoslobodskaya, Belorusskaya are some of the stations showing stained glass mosaics, art work showing folk art, socialist themes, sculpture and chandeliers. Park Pobedy station is one of the deepest in the world. I found the extra long escalators an experience. We took subways and not taxis around Moscow. Some of our friends had a bad experience with a taxi. We continued our sightseeing with the subway.;5;September 16, 2016
The most Amazing Experience;Nothing can compare to going down the escalator for what seem like an eternity on a steep angle to then get crammed into a fast moving carriage at warp speed.  You simply must try this it's friggin  awesome and a highlight of our trip;5;September 16, 2016
Much more spacious than London;As part of an organised tour my wife and I were taken on a visit to the Metro. We were not impressed to be told this, but, on arrival, 'wow' , very wide public areas, very wide platforms, each station individually designed with displays, chandaliers etc.,  Well worth a day trip around the system,  much more modern than London (most less than 50 years old) and it costs just 50 roubles to travel - to the next station or on the whole network, carries millions of passengers per day, avoid 'rush hour' travel!;5;September 16, 2016
Wow;Metro is so exciting..train is so fast.so it come under 1 min.there are many people transfering with metro;5;September 16, 2016
Best way to commute in Moscow;The metro rails are fast and connect the entire city. However, the trains are slightly old and lack the technological advancements I have seen in other cities. There has to be more English support for the tourists, because it took me a while to figure out things.;4;September 15, 2016
Getting around;Moscow Metro legs a few more English signs and station names to make it THE BEST way to get from A to B in the Metropolitan city...;5;September 15, 2016
It was something amazing;It was something amazing what must be see for everyone who visit Moscow. every metro station are different and really looks like palace. I took tour on metro and I was 100 % happy about my choose.... if i will go one more time i visit again metro but just other station...;5;September 15, 2016
The symbole of Soviet pick times...;apart from being a great means of transport to move around the city, the Metro also represents the grandor of Soviet engineering and construction.most of stations are preserved in their original state.;4;September 15, 2016
Public transportation is really good here;The only time I use public transportation is when I travel, never at home. I walk a lot too. The Metro is like a sight seeing destination too. Very beautiful underground. I saw a lot of sculptures and iron art throughout the stations. Very cheap. 1 way ticket is like 50 rubles. Which is like $0.80 USD;5;September 15, 2016
Both a mean of transportation and a destination;The Moscow is quite unique. Among other things, it was built during the WWII; it's the deepest in the world in some sections; the decor is grandiose is some stations. The metro itself is quite convenient to visit Moscow. The two ring lines have English announcements, but it's very easy to use anyway and by far the fastest mean of transportation. Take time to visit some of the stations. Personal favorites are: Konsomolskaya; Tetralnaya; Plochad Revolyutsii; Park Pobedy (the long escalators). Highly recommended.;5;September 15, 2016
Metro station;Great experience , fast , cheap but little crowded .. One of things that you have to try in Moscow ...;5;September 15, 2016
Red Square must visit;It's got history and mystery behind it.  Great church orthodox beautiful structure and amazing photo shoots area. Around is a very old but refurbished Gum department store.  Must visit or Moscow is incomplete.;5;September 15, 2016
small palaces not stations;Some of the Metro stations in Moscow felt as if we had entered a small palace and not a metro station. Also metro is cheap and the best way to travel in moscow;5;September 15, 2016
Amazing Stations;If possible get out on every station to experience the magnificent architecture. Amazingly clean stations. Choose a weekend to visit these stations.;5;September 14, 2016
Why can't we have public transport like this?;Sent from Mail for Windows 10 We've all heard the Moscow Metro is beautiful, huge, opulent. So often things seems to be portrayed like a tourist trap, like a destination that looks like a multi-coloured heaven on picture but turns out to smell like an uncovered public lav. Not here.Moscow's Metro is really, really worth a visit. For 50 roubles (about 68 euro cents) you can spend the entire day down there; a ticket gets you in anywhere and YOU choose when and where you exit. Most lines cross another every few stops, the circuit route (line 5; Kol'tsevaya; but the name doesn't matter) links with practically every other line so you have an easy means of train-hopping. Crossing lines does not cost a new ticket; you're down there already, period..The stations are indeed both beautiful and huge. Each one is utterly different from the next (they're themed in an artistic sort of way) and often even more beautiful too (mind you our local was themed on Dostoevsky and he wasn't exactly an icon of happiness). Cross-links are marked in destination names (in Cyrillic) but, from a westerner's point of view, in line numbers too (the floor is marked with arrows pointing to the line number). When the arrows for your line point in two directions (into town and out) you need to know the first letter of the next station you want to pass through (it will be at the top of the list); downer is that will be in Cyrillic but it's easy enough to remember one single letter, no matter how odd it's shaped. Remember if you end up heading in the wrong direction it's free to come back again, and it's quick too!!On the big routes the train frequency is almost every minute (more at rush hours but stay in bed an extra 20mins to avoid the crush). On lesser routes (say line 10 at 3pm) it might stretch to every 3mins. Dreadful really!! The cars DO NOT rock in any way, the engineering is pin-point. Speeds are exceptionally good; it's about 6-10mins from the 3rd ring road (a long way out) to the Kremlin.Don't spend $30-40 for a guided tour; it's practically free if you do it yourself and it's also really easy too. It's also safe, the militia (local police; see the movie 'Gorki Park') are very evident and at the end of a shift are to be seen leaving in columns of 10-14 in military order going back up the escalators.To get tickets; follow the flow; each station entrance is marked with a red 'M' (a letter that IS the same in Roman and Cyrillic). Sometimes inside there's an further entrance door that's not always very obvious, that's the only difficult issue in the whole system but you don't see them in the big stations. You will see a lady behind a glass window after about 10-100 meters (generally on the left for some reason).  They tend to be both patient and helpful.  Show the number fingers you want in tickets and offer your money and you’re away.  You get cards with a programmed number electronically loaded, when they’re used up the readout at the access gate into the Metro will show a ‘0’ as you pass through on the last valid ticket.  We asked for 12; they offered them in a single card of 12, 3x4, 6x2 and 12x1, we picked the second last.  Remember to say ‘Spasiba’; being polite is appreciated here.Special point: If you but 20 it costs the same as 13.  Epic value.Tickets may be shared; 20 people can use the one ticket as long as  there are sufficient payments on it.Once through the ticket gates you just take the escalators to your line.  The system is very deep down so the escalators move quite quickly.  They’re very safe but you need to be moving before you arrive at the end to ensure a decent ‘dismount’.The train doors are automatic and remain open for a reasonable period.  Most trains have a PA system and announce the station before you arrive.  Some of the busier lines also follow the Russia announcement with one in English; which was handy when we were finding our way initially.Would we use it again?  Yup; we used it several times a day whilst in town and it’s safer than taxies and is a fraction of the cost.;5;September 14, 2016
Like a museum;Good placeWeak tourist information its better to use aplication or book no one can help you there if you cant speak english.;5;September 14, 2016
Unbelievably beautiful and unique!;While I only experienced three or four stops along the metro line, the stations we did visit were amazing! Arbat was incredibly sophisticated-looking, and the stop near Red Square had some interesting bronze statues of workers, soldiers, sailors, and even some animals. You could see places on many of the statues that had been polished or worn down where they had been touched millions of times by superstitious metro passengers for good luck or good fortune. Highly recommend taking this mode of transportation while in Moscow.;5;September 14, 2016
Metro tour;A wonderful afternoonTake your time, and visit all the stations in the ring. So much nostalgia and evidence of Stalin's desire to showcase his (false) successes. Lots of mosaics of fat smiling peasants and flowers. Use a guide book so you don't miss a trick.;5;September 14, 2016
MUST DO and SEE;The Metro in the City Center has stunningly beautiful art work, sculptures, statues, mosiac work, you name it, the chandeliers, wall lighting, everything is just beautiful.  It is a must see, take a camera, and a map so you can switch sides, it is one price if you stay in the tunnels, you pay again if you come up and out, so buy several tickets.  You have to look for your stop carefully as it is written differently in different places - off by a letter or two but the lines are colour coded AND they also have a number system for the line.  We got n going in the wrong direction once, no worry get off and go the other way.  We switched lines even, not too hard.  The subway police are actually helpful too if you think you are lost.  There are not rude people there so I was amazed and really enjoy that system of travel.  Definitely try it if only for the art work!;5;September 14, 2016
Don't miss it;It's a must see in Moscow,very safe, just be aware on and off the trains,although we saw nothing. Great to see all the bronze figures, escalator is something else. Try it;5;September 14, 2016
A surprisingly good adventure;Visited Moscow with my Dad as it had been on both our 'bucket lists' for a long time. Having heard many stories we weren't 100% sure what to expect, but the metro - and the city - definitely exceeded expectations.The metro itself became more than just a means to an end with us deciding to undertake our own self-guided tour of the more famous stations. It didn't let us down: we spent a LOT  of time being generally awestruck as we wandered around the subterranean gems. There is so much variety, with each station designed and decorated in its own unique style.There is lots to see in Moscow, but I would suggest that if you don't take the opportunity to at least have a look around the amazing metro then you are really missing out. It's so much more than a means of transport, and I would easily consider it one of my favourite memories of the city.;5;September 13, 2016
Some wonderful stations and great way to move throughout Moscow;Loved the Metro. It covers almost all over city and some stations are really really charming. Never seen other metro like that.;5;September 13, 2016
Fast, Clean, Beautiful;Nothing rivals the Moscow Metro system. Trains arrive every minute and have fantastic routes. For tourists, it is very difficult to figure out the metro system. Study the map before arriving and you'll at least have a chance! Metro trains from one color arrive and leave from one platform, if you want to transfer, you need to walk to a different 'platform' within the station. If are arriving from the SVO train, the ATM is inside the metro and PAST the ticket booths. It is right next to the entry gates. The metro tickets MUST be paid for in cash, so you need to get rubles. We got about 20 passes for one week, and we were OK.;5;September 13, 2016
Vizit central stations, plan 1.5- 2 hours;even if you an experienced traveller, do not overlook the opportunity to vizit Moscow metro - it s a unique experience as Moscow metro is a piece of art. Prefer central stations ( Komsomolskaya (brown line), Mayakovskaya ( green line), Ploshad Revolutsii ( blue), Kurskaya ( blue), Kropotkinskaya ( red), Novokuznetskaya ( green) - two last - to see outside as well. You can also combine this excursion with outside walk nearby especially in good weather. Stations of 70s -80s are much more functional and less impressive though may be interesting to feel the spirit of these days (Tenply stan ( orange), Aeroport ( green). Newly built - Trubnaya may be a good choice. I highly recommend this vizit - it s almost free (only the one -three  metro ticket price) and guarantee sea of emotions.;5;September 13, 2016
Brave the Metro!;We were told that in Moscow one  should see the Metro stations, so we did. Each ticket cost 50rubles which allows you to travel one way to where ever you wish to go, as long as you don't exit the station. You need to scan your ticket to get into the Metro but not to get out. Metro stations are quiet and super clean. Many are decorated like a museum, they really are something. The escalators are also really long and worth visiting just to see and ride them! The trains are quite old but people are very courteous and will offer their seats to you if you have a child (our youngest is 7).   Make sure you have a metro map that has both the English AND Russian names on them. We counted the stops we needed to make to get to destinations, as not all lines offer an English voice over (the brown line does!). The stations do not clearly state it's name, so by counting the stops helped us.;5;September 13, 2016
Pieces of art!;During our visit with a local guide we can admire some of the most beautiful station. He told us that there are 220 metro stations and every metro arrive in the station at an interval of maximum 2 minutes, so the people are calm and not in a hurry. The guide also told us that Park Pobedy station is the deepest in the world, at about more than 200 ft. Every station is a piece of art with its own story, well preserved, reconditioned and very clean.;4;September 13, 2016
Not to be missed;Wherever I travel if there is one I like travelling on a city's metro system, it's usually a cheap & effective way to get around and you get a better sense of being in a place than other modes of transport.The Moscow Metro is brilliant. The stations are works of art, the whole system is very clean and there's a complete absence of graffiti. The trains are frequent, usually every couple of minutes, and the fares are cheap. What's not to like?The only downside (as an English speaker with no Russian) is that very few signs are in English so navigation can be a bit of a challenge, but that's all part of the fun.;5;September 13, 2016
A little over-rated, but beautiful;The Moscow subway is indeed very beautiful, well truth be said not all the stations are equally beautiful. They have style and some of them are very intricate and grand. Full of History and charm. I would suggest to take/hire a knowledgeable guide for this sight-seeing..We did and our guide painstakingly explained every single detail and gave us all the history and facts.;4;September 13, 2016
Wish we had this in NY;The art and statuary is beyond beautiful, The cleanliness is beyond belief. The schedule of the trains is fantastic, every minute during rush hour and every two minutes at other times,;5;September 12, 2016
no english;the metro was fast, not expensive and many of the stations are really beautiful.we actually went on a guided tour of metro stations.however....there is no english whatsover written in the stations. it took us a long time to find our way around.;4;September 12, 2016
Practical and beautiful;The Moscow Metro stations have to be seen to be believed. Beatifully "decorated" with historical sculptures and art. Some are more like palaces than metro stations. The metro itself is fast and very efficient.;5;September 12, 2016
AMAZINGLY EASY;You'd seriously have to be stupid to get lost in the metro, it may be foreign but look at the letters as pictures, marry up with your maps, then travel! Well done Moscow! Wonderful journeys.Now for the art; nearly every station is like an Art gallery, you'll be speechless so often, you could spend your holiday just visiting the stations! Just beautiful.;5;September 12, 2016
Amazing testimony to a regime that wanted to project power, capacity and quality;We used the Metro quite extensively as a pure means of transport for 3 days but also deliberately went to a number of stations simply to view them as an attraction in their own right. The history is fascinating; they learned a lot from London Underground engineers employed in the mid 30's to help design a railway that now moves 8 million people a day. This helped avoid some of the limitations of the London system. The architecture, whilst heavily symbolic and politicised is magnificent.  Certainly a destination in its own right. Just get on and get off as you go round the system and admire the scale and quality of the Metro.  Its also very cheap.;4;September 12, 2016
worth a visit;All the stations are different in architecture and some of them are really spectacular.  As you are almost certainly going to use the metro, they are well worth looking out for.;5;September 11, 2016
Subway was beyond words.  cleanliness;The sculptures, paintings and lighting were so much more than expected. I believe they were the best I have ever seen including Europe;5;September 11, 2016
Another world;It was really interesting to go into the earth so much and then see so many beautiful halls and corridors. You were on the escalators for about five minutes to reach where you could get on the trains. It was really amazing. Above that there were people who would run through the escalators.;5;September 11, 2016
Amazing;Very beautiful. Especially the stations on the blue line. You can't see anything like this in many places in the world. It can be a half day trip..;5;September 10, 2016
A maze.;At some stations where several lines meet, you can walk forever fi ding your line. I found it easier to go to a metro where there was just one or two lines. The lines are coloured, so look for your colour. Each trip is 50R and you can change as many times as you like as lomg as you do not exit. As for the decorations, I thought the St Petersburg ones were better.;2;September 10, 2016
If you don't know Russian, be careful!;I'm surprised at how few people speak English and how little is printed in English. This is not an English friendly country based on the metro. Before you use the metro (and if you don't speak Russian), it's a good idea to ask someone at your hotel to provide some advance notice of what to do, where to go, which lines to ride, etc. I think the metro is safe and it's surely an inexpensive way to get around. Buying tickets begins the adventure! Don't expect the person selling the tickets to be friendly or helpful. Just get used to going up to people and asking, "Do you speak English?" Even then you may get wrong information! They may speak English, but they may not understand what you're asking or what you need. Fortunately we found our way around, but it wasn't without some effort!;3;September 10, 2016
Tour of some of the best stations;We went with a tour guide to see the stations and I had no idea how much time and money had been spent on these stations.   They are stunning!!!! One of the stations was like Versailles palace;5;September 10, 2016
Great experience.;It surely is one of the better planned network of trains. Considering that it is really old, you can't but admire the stations which even today are so well maintained.;5;September 10, 2016
Fast and funky;Real architectural gems. And a cheap and  fast way to get about this beautiful city = a perfect recipe!;5;September 9, 2016
Definitely worth seeing;Stalin wanted art to be accessible to the masses, and where better than the subway ?  It only takes 15-20 minutes to loop through a few stations, and each one was beautiful.;5;September 9, 2016
Magnificent metro;The architecture of the underground and railway stations is impressive.  We enjoyed exploring this beautiful subterranean world.   The tickets are so cheap - only 50 rubles for the whole network.  Exploring was easy using Trip Advisor's  step-by-step guides on the Forum, the downloadable Yanex map app and preparing a multi-language journey plan.   Our favourites were Mayakovskay and Kiyevskaya railway station which has the cathedral qualities of Central Station in New York.;5;September 9, 2016
Take a camera;Only 50 roubles to enter the Metro to travel anywhere and, whilst down there, hop on and hop off at various stations to marvel at and photograph the wonderful murals and ceilings.;4;September 9, 2016
An outstanding experience, especially for train enthusiasts.;The quality and service, at really cheap price, is a truly memorable experience and a 'must' for visitors. The stations are so impressive, whilst the transport service is incredibly frequent and efficient. The stations are spotlessly clean.;5;September 9, 2016
Incredible spacious;So clean and spacious. Huge ceilings and pillars,  beautiful mosaics everywhere. Very clean trains. Notices in Russian Cyrilics as well as English.;5;September 8, 2016
Art in the Metro;The Moscow Metro is a rapid transit system serving Moscow, and the neighbouring towns. Opened in 1935 it was the first underground railway system in the Soviet Union. The system is mostly underground, with the deepest section 243 ft underground.  Of those 195 stations many have interesting architecture and design that reflect the era they were built in. The Kiyevskaya Metro Station and Elektrozavodskaya Metro Station are must to see.  You could spend days in the Moscow Metro just viewing the art work.  As it is a major transportation system  - very busy and crowded.;5;September 8, 2016
Very cool subway station.;Many of the metro stations in Moscow are very beautiful. It's an attraction just to travel with the subway in Moscow.;4;September 8, 2016
Beautiful;Most beautiful subway in the world. There was beautiful art and every stop had a different look to it. I was impressed. Rush hour on weekdays are advised to be ignored.;5;September 8, 2016
Efficient Metro & Museum;With a little knowledge of cyrillic letters it is the best way to commute in Moscow, not dangerous, not scary just efficient with trains basically coming every minute. Besides, there are many beautiful stations worth getting off and looking.;5;September 8, 2016
business travel;during last two years i visited Moscow for my business. Moscow Metro is a Museum! Fantastic and very interesting. Unfortunately i had not time to stay in a Moscow Metro for look  everything but i suggest visit Moscow old station.;4;September 8, 2016
Amazing Metro;Having heard about the opulence of the Moscow Metro, it is definitely worth a look. Very busy so probably better in the evening but full of statues and chandeliers.;4;September 8, 2016
The jewels underground;Every Stop one surprise. The metro tour is a truly a gem at a really low price, you can't miss it. It maybe a little confusing so plan well or go with time, but it will be worth every second. It's a space in Russian proportions.;5;September 7, 2016
Good commuting;It's big, it's clean, it's safe and it will bring you where you want to be. The only drawback is that the navigation system is rather obsolete and differs from station to station, so I recommend using an app like yandex.metro or tube for easier navigation, especially if your Russian leaves much to be desired.;4;September 7, 2016
Tourist attraction and highly efficient transport system;The metro stations are rightly famous for their architecture and decoration. What may not be as well known is that the Metro System itself is incredibly efficient and easy to navigate. Spread over 10 lines including a linking circle line trains run from every station on the minute every minute (except Sunday when the gap rises to 2 minutes).  The trains are clean, modern and comfortable.  The stations themselves are absolutely spotless and somehow, despite the depth of the stations (the height of some of the escalators would make you dizzy) the air at all levels is fresh. The sign posting is clear with signs for the various lines both overhead and on the floor.  Tickets cost the equivalent of 85c regardless of distance travelled (so long as you remain within the metro system)and the tickets can be bought i bulk at the kiosks in the stations, buying 10 or 20 as a block offers a decent discount.  The metro stations are also very safe.  There is a visible but not heavy handed police presence.  Use the metro as an enjoyable way to travel round Moscow.;5;September 7, 2016
Amazing metro;Moscow metro has expanded greatly and is a great way to get around.  Not your plain and simple subway as each station is like a museum with beautiful architecture and art work. Rode the subway while touring Moscow and found it to be a great experience.;4;September 7, 2016
Underground Museum of Metro Stations;Very clean but complex system of metro stations. Each station got its own artistic value. Need to spend time to experience. Absence of station name in English give some challenge but can manage.;5;September 6, 2016
Moscow Metro is a museum.  Each station has it's own theme! Must see;Each station has it's own theme! Definitely a must see when visiting Moscow.  They even have special metro tours.;5;September 6, 2016
Must see;Beautiful, clean, fast, EASY to use and cheap. The messages delivered on arrival at each station are in English and Russian.  Russian men always stand for a older lady so a seat is always availabe.  Trains leave every 1.5min in peek times and 2min outside peak.  The doors open and close automatically so get in and out quickly or the train will leave without you. Spend some time to look at the beauty of different stations.;5;September 6, 2016
Amazing station architecture;We used the metro to get around - it is incredibly cheap and very efficient. Trains run every couple of minutes and tickets are Pyb 50. Just be warned that the station signs are all in Russian so you need a guide or at least to learn the alphabet and the words for Exit or Transfer if you want to use it yourself. Some trains have English maps and announcements. Some of the stations have spectacular interiors with marble walls and frescoed panels and ceilings, and chandeliers. You should include the metro on any trip to Moscow.;5;September 6, 2016
Don't miss it!;Highly recommend a visit to the Moscow Metro. Architecturally and historically significant. Super clean and efficient. Make sure to space yourself on the escalators. Super steep. If someone falls there is a domino effect. Beware of pick pockets. Easy to navigate.;5;September 6, 2016
You've got to see it!;Many of the metro stations are really stunning! You've got to see it! However, here are some tips:- The names are in Russian, and it is a little hard to get used to it.- Do not go on rush time!- Really hard to get information in English- Beware of pick pockets.- Takes a little while to get used to it, but it is totally worth it! - You can get one trip ticket and go from one station to the other, as long as you don't get out of the station. It is really cheap.- Check online for the ones you want to visit and go for it!;5;September 6, 2016
Gorgeous!;So many beautiful stations! Best to go late at night when the subway is not too busy. Beautiful architecture. Hard to believe it is a metro!;5;September 5, 2016
The Russian Subway;A must see in Moscow.  The escalator is over 900 feet down.  Each station is different.  Beautiful without any graffi.;5;September 5, 2016
Our transportation in Moscow;Greatest metro I have ever seen, can take you to any place in Moscow, very easy to follow and cheap at the same time. Every metro is different from the other, some of them are very beautiful, it contain some great pictures on the ceiling as well as in the walls,see attached photo's.;5;September 5, 2016
Metro of Moscow at Night;Saw the Metro with the tour group at night. This was a great and definitely worth seeing. A different and unexpected tour!The decorations, statues, stained glass and chandeliers were amazing! Highly recommend if you have time. Takes about an hour.;5;September 5, 2016
Fascinating look into Russian/Soviet history;We travelled the Metro with and without a guide, it can be confusing at times but as long as you take your time and have a map in Russian it is great. We went to Ismayilov market and to a theater show at night and never encountered any problems. The  station at Partizanskaya extremely impressive as were the dogs at Revolution Sq station,the times we were with a guide also gave us an insight into the sheer size and depth of the system as well as how it was used as a shelter during WW 2 and how at one point all the statues were moved out when the German army was on the outskirts of Moscow.The Metro Maps were very small print and reading glasses might be useful,I used my teenage son!;5;September 5, 2016
Amazing!!;We rode around Moscow in the metro all the time and knew that some metro stations were attractions in and of themselves.  I never, however, imagined that they would be as grand as they are.  The escalators at most stops are incredibly deep and decorated, almost uniformly, with very art deco style lighting.  Each station is different but they all have a certain Soviet feel.  You could easily spend more than a few hours just riding around and visiting the different stations and by the way, they are spotlessly clean (they put New York, London and Paris metros to shame).  Even the minor stations have little details...an old hammer and sickle sign here, a worker's mosaic there,....that just make them so interesting.  My favorites were Ploschad Revolyutsi (can be used for Red Square and Kremlin) which is make largely of copper or bronze and wood, and has numerous statues of Soviet soldiers and the famous dog (touch the nose for good luck---a Moscow tradition), Komsomolskaya - a tribute to Soviet baroque, Novoslodoskaya - with great murals of Soviet workers and Kievskaya - another baroque wonder.  The metros are always full, even at night, so a visit at any time is good.  this is a Moscow must!;5;September 5, 2016
Easy;The Metro is fast and efficient and easy to use. One fare applies regardless of how many stations -- and it is cheap. Something like €1 a trip. Navigating takes some planning as the script is not in English, but the majesty of some stations makes it worthwhile to see even if you doi not want to go far.;5;September 5, 2016
Artistic and convenient way to explore Moscow;It was our first time to visit Russia, and we had limited information on hand other than the Red Square. We also read a lot of horror stories about the inhospitable/cold attitude of the locals towards tourists. Thus, our expectations were quite low. To our surprise and delight, there were helpful and polite Muscovites (without even speaking any English) who helped us (even walked with us) to find our way during rush hour through one of the busiest stations- Biblioteka Imenie Lenina/Kropotskinskaya/Aleksandorvy Sad/Arbatskaya interchange. This Muscovite hospitality (reminiscent of the British politeness and gentlemanly character) is something we did not experience in a top European city where locals would pretend they did not understand what you were saying. Such past experience taught me to rely on our own map-reading skills (even in non-English characters). However, my personalized map (with pictures of Cyrillic characters) still proved to be a challenge in navigating the daunting 4-way interchange during rush hour.The trip timings are efficient, the fare cheap, the stations' decor picturesque. The heavy doors though were challenging. In sum, the Moscow Metro is one unforgettable ride.;4;September 5, 2016
Very convenient;It's surely the best way to move from one location to another, while you stay in Moscow. Such alternatives as taxi are not recommended - the drivers look like criminals and try to take advantage of tourists and rip them off. Metro is fast and cheap;5;September 4, 2016
A must do in Moscow;Glad we had a guide. Rubbed the dogs nose at Revolution Sq station. Enjoyed people watching between stations. We purchased all day tickets and travelled on lots of lines great day;5;September 4, 2016
Each stop has something to see;Take a blue line and in every station go and visit the platform. Dont forget to visit the deepest station in the world;5;September 4, 2016
Moscow Metro;Worth a visit. All the stations are individually designed and decorated. No graffiti, clean and interesting to see. Very efficient and fast way to travel;5;September 4, 2016
Metro;Taking the metro around the city is very convenient. The only problem is the signs are only in Russian and it's hard to find someone that speaks English to help. It's best to take a map of the different lines and go by the color of the lines.;3;September 4, 2016
A beautiful and robust network .;The metro is amazing. Its quick and high in frequency. Each of the stations are different and grand.;5;September 4, 2016
Best Subway in Europe!;Even though the underground services has been around as early as those in NY and London, i'm so impressed by the design and the maintenance. Not only they are luxurious, they are so clean you can't smell any urine or rubbish, and there is no rubbish lying around. people here are so disciplined. Shame to Paris and London!;5;September 4, 2016
Palace for the people;The Moscow Metros are truly the palace for the peoples, I spent a few hours just travelling through the Metros just to admire the architecture and designs. Definitely a must see for anyone travelling to Moscow;5;September 4, 2016
Unbelievable metro system!;We really wondered what this was going to be like,visiting a metro network ?, yet it really was an interesting surprise and more like a visit to an interesting museum. Well worth it and it's free, just wish Melbourne could gave a similar system!;4;September 4, 2016
Simple, straight forward, it works.;Imagine 50 rubles one way to go anywhere in Moscow!  Insert the appropriate bills or coins into a machine and you're ready to go.  Manned ticket offices also are available.  Many of the Moscow Metro stations are individual works of art - and you should check them out.  The best siteseeing deal in Moscow for the buck!;4;September 3, 2016
Amazing, Gallery for the people;Just took the metro to visit 3 stations and was floored. Each station is more amazing than the others, if art is to inspire this is definately doing the job.;5;September 3, 2016
Awsome;There are fantastic monuments, and handcrafts put together in many stations. It worth travelling around and take a look.;5;September 3, 2016
Just travel the rails;The Moscow metro, is amazing evert station has something different from the dog who has a shiny nose from people patting it( good luck) to the chandeliers and sculptures. It is worth paying the 35 rubles just for a ride;4;September 2, 2016
Impressive metro stations;It was the first time we visited the metro stations as part of the sightseeing programs of our tour.    We visited 4 stations: Ploschad Revolyutsii, Arbatskaya, Kievskaya and Park Pobedy, each with its own unique architectural characteristics and was built in different eras.  The stations are like mini-museums reflecting the prevailing designs of the particular periods when they were built (from 1950s to 2003).  Well worth a visit especially when all it costs is a metro ticket.  It is better to visit outside rush hours so that you can avoid the crowds and take photos more freely.;5;September 2, 2016
Getting Around Moscow;Well worth a look even if you dont need to use the Underground. The beauty of this hidden gem was really surprising.  So much history and its great for transport!;5;September 2, 2016
Art and more;The metro is an efficient mass travel system. Very few signs in English but wonderful Russin art and sculptures. It's a real must, don't skip this;5;September 2, 2016
Beautiful Metro stations but too busy;Certainly, it is part of the attraction visit to see the metro stations in Moscow. As a tourist, it is irresistible to take photos in metro stations but it is too busy or inconvenient for locals to be blocked during rushing hours as you taking photos to block their ways. So, it is strongly suggested to take photos during weekends or non-peak hours in metro as a responsible tourist.;3;September 2, 2016
Architecturally Interesting;A guide would be useful to help you zero in on the most famous stations and to explain their significance. Worth the 45 minutes or so, if you've seen the city highlights.;4;September 1, 2016
Metro is the history;Metro in this city could have diffrent utility. You can use it for trasporation, however, it is more famous for its sculpture and paintings. Story back to decisions of last regim for entertaining people while they were in the way home.If you have time, see each station and feel the meaning of buty;5;September 1, 2016
I'm going underground;You could literally spend days exploring the different metro stations in and around Moscow. You can simply get off at the most amazing ones and wander around for a while on your way to other destinations - the trains run at intervals of about 2 minutes. There are too many incredible ones to mention here and it doesn't stop underground, many of the entrances are worth a visit as well. "Palaces for the people" indeed.;5;September 1, 2016
The best thing about moscow;Again everyone will bang on about the underground (rightly so).A couple of tips.Get a subway map that is in Russian. (this will help you decide what platforms and lines you want in the station) Guide books we had only had the metro map using the latin alphabet, useless in Moscow.You boss calls you to work your lover calls you home, male voice on train means the train is going towards the centre, female means its heading away from the centre.Some stations have other lines, these will have different names, it takes time to get between lines.Do your research and find the gems, some stations are just so cool.;5;September 1, 2016
Very efficient, easy to negotiate, very cheap way to travel;The most beautiful stations are best shown to you by a tour guide. We had one who showed us the five most spectacular ones. For practical reasons the metro is also fantastic. Reliable and regular.;4;September 1, 2016
Moscow metro tour.;WE went with Moscow free tours, although ironically this tour you have to pay for! It was an excellent tour ran by Elena and well worth the effort.;5;September 1, 2016
Not only for travel.;Not only is this one of the best means of traveling around but it is also really impressive to look at all of the architecture. Plus one of the best Georgian restraints in the city is like 500ft from the entrance to Krasnoselskaya station.;5;August 31, 2016
Impressive;We took a guided tour as part of a Moscow walking tour through some of the most impressive tube stations I have ever experience.;5;August 31, 2016
Most incredible metro!;This is something that needs to be seen when you are in Moscow. All the stations of the network are different and some more amazing than others so inform yourself about the most incredible ones if you have some time for it.;4;August 31, 2016
Amazing Underground Gallery;The Moscow Metro is a bit daunting at first due to a lack of English signage but once you get a hang of it it is a ssefficient & effective way to get around Moscow. One day we spent underground viewing some of the amazing Metro stations & we would highly recommend you do a tour of the Metro too.;4;August 31, 2016
Work of art;I had heard that the Metro was spectacular and it certainly is. Every station is different and beautiful. Tickets are cheap and it certainly worth a visit.;5;August 30, 2016
Moscow metro;Moscow metro is very well known in the world as one of the best examples of a modern rail transport system. It is the best transportation method in Moscow. Possible to use for people who do not know Russian language. Metro should be experienced in Moscow.;5;August 30, 2016
Amazing;One of the most amazing facilities from the architectural point of view. Each station is made in different style. Worth to see it!;5;August 30, 2016
most beautiful metro;if in Moscow, do spend a couple of hours exploring the most interesting stations architecturally. They are incredible. Many are central. Best of all, possibly Mayakovskaya;5;August 30, 2016
Scintillating!;Lovely russian architecture and excellent stonework. these metro stations are a masterpiece of the russian people. not many countries have so much heritage in their metro sytems. By far the best metro system in the world. Trains are cheap too!!;5;August 30, 2016
Efficient but plan ahead;Trains are ancient, platforms seethe with people, all in a hurry. The escalators are fast and some go deep underground. Signage is in Cyrillic so have a paper map or one on your phone. And plan ahead, count the stations. Once you've done it once or twice you'll be a pro!;3;August 30, 2016
Very old;Spectacular location . The trains are old and worn out . Train noise is very high and because it is being worn train . The device is suitable for visitors from all parts of Moscow .;3;August 30, 2016
Moscow's highlight.;The most artistic subway in the world. Unreal and definitely one of Moscow's many highlights. Not far from major Hotels in the surrounding area.;4;August 29, 2016
Catch the train;Wow a train every 40 secs and inexpensive this is amazing and it's a good thing too as you will be running late after entering the stations the artwork is truly amazing what are you waiting for ... Catch the trainThe metro was also used as a bomb shelter and you can still see the door still in operation at one of the stations in my last pic;5;August 29, 2016
Efficient, cheap and easy to use;The stations on the brown circle line are superbly decorated - must see. Other stations more like other undergrounds. Easy to buy a one price ticket 50 roubles, touch on access. Lack of English signage a challenge but quite workable.;4;August 29, 2016
It's an art gallery not a transport hub!;After hearing many stories about the beauty of Moscow's metro, it lived up to its expectations....actually exceeded them. Spend a good few hours visiting some of the stations on the red and brown line - better than any art gallery!;5;August 29, 2016
Great experience.;I have travelled through Moscow for over 16 years and never used the Metro. This was my first time on the Metro and really enjoyed it. I think it is a must for any visitors. Many interesting stations.;5;August 29, 2016
Not efficient, pure soviet style, must see;I found the Moscow Metro not very efficient to move around the city compared to US standards.Moscow Metro looks like a different world, nothing to share with other metros around the world. Many stations are in pure soviet style (which is quite ugly for my personal taste) and right because of that they are a must for each visit to Moscow!;4;August 29, 2016
Easy to use and beautiful;If someone tells you that the transportation system is an attraction in itself, it is tempting to disregard this. However, in the case of Moscow this is true. Each station is different and almost all are beautiful and interesting, some are just interesting and a few just beautiful. There is a vast range in the decoration including a Russian history in mosaic on the ceiling, statutory of all kinds, art deco stained glass and much, much more.On practical level the system is easy to use. Each line is colour coded and numbered. On the wall on each platform is maker showing where the station is on the line which can be used to check which direction you are going in. The stations are marked in English and Cyrillic letters. The trains are so frequent that you can take your time to identify which train and platform you need before you get on the train. On the circle line there are announcements in English and Russian. Do watch that  same stations have different names on different lines. Using the connections between station is often the easiest way to cross the very busy roads.The tickets are very cheap. If you are buy a troika card, you can top it up easily using the ticket machines which can set to English.;4;August 28, 2016
Some of the stations are amazing!;You can't avoid the metro if you are spending a few days in Moscow. I personally don't like the subway and try to avoid it as much as I can. However, some Moscow stations are like museums, they are full of art works. Worth visiting the recommended ones.;5;August 28, 2016
What a trip!;To be honest I am constantly lost on the metro system here because I cant read Russian. There is how ever a handy app that translates to English yet the other issue is some of the metro stops use color coding for the lines and others don't so that is also confusing. Now that that is out of the way lets talk about the beauty. Some of these stations are so beautiful you just want to sit there and look at it and some are cold and gritty with no soul. There are several ways to pay for your ride either by the trip or by the month. Don't expect a friendly ride as most Russians have RBF and if you are going to experience pushing, shoving, name calling if you have a backpack. Lately security is tight and police will check your papers and that's fine so be prepared. I would not suggest riding alone in the late night hours as the access tunnels are dangerous in some areas and several of my colleagues have been mugged.;4;August 28, 2016
Visit at night;I visited the metro with an organised tour but wish I had gone on my own to be able to see much more.  Each of the three stations visited were adorned with paintings, frescos, sculptures or bronzes.  Marble floors and walls lit by chandeliers giving an opulent effect. Every station was different with its own theme.  The metro is set out in a similar grid to London and is easy to navigate.  The best time to visit is at night when the crowds are less. The cost is minimal (about 50p) to visit as many stations as you like, as long as you don't come out of the building.;5;August 28, 2016
art;different arts at each stoptake ur cam and try to stop at each stationtry to get some history of eachthis will cost you nothing as long as ur inside the metro stationbtw, free wifi inside metroenjoy it;5;August 28, 2016
A new vision to metro;I've seen different cities metro system, but the Moscow metro was so unique for me because of its various designs and the greatness of whole system, you can both enjoy and access to all the city's places. ;);5;August 28, 2016
Must visit;Mosco underground metro is very unique. Very clean stations, efficient and reliable train on time. One must get off at every station and see decor which is great. Most of the stations are underground. one has to take escalator to reach platform which could be very deep. Trains are clean and they run on time. Trains are also painted from outside giving good feel. Very safe to travel. One must visit Metro, just buy ticket and ride.;5;August 27, 2016
Stunning!!;The metro was sort of like a museum with all the statues around. It was truly amazing to see such sculptures on the underground. This is something everyone needs to see!!;4;August 27, 2016
Worth to see, not just use for travel;Moscow metro is not just a transport, most of the stations are really piece of art.If you are travelling for a first time, you can simply take a ride in a circle line visiting every station there. It'll be a step into communist era before the 2nd world war. Then you can check other lines if you'd like - the most interesting to my point of view are the old one's and some of moderns also.It can be the best and very cheap attraction during rainy day in Moscow.;5;August 27, 2016
Get a ticket and go for a ride;Buy a ticket and be prepared to be amazed.  Get off at every station for a look.  Every one is different and like a museum full of art from statues to stained glass to mosaics.  A must see;5;August 26, 2016
So very safe & spectacular;The Moscow metro is clean, efficient, reliable & most importantly so safe even travelling solo:-)It is so cheap so don't debate or delay using it or get caught up in the negativity u read or hear about it. The architecture is simply out of this world & I would advise taking a guided metro tour to the various stations to see the very best of the world's no 1 Metro - Go Moscow:-)Yes it is true that there's little or no English about but count the stops & you'll be fine.;5;August 26, 2016
Definitely Check It Out;I know - subways how great can they be?  The Moscow Metro is really clean and beautiful. I hate traveling underground and I felt comfortable there too.  My company had a tour guide take us around to check out the metro.  Not all stops are stunningly beautiful but they still are nice.;4;August 26, 2016
Wonderful underground;When in Moscow one should visit the underground and especially some of the most interesting stations like Majakovskaja, Plosjstsjad Revoljoetsii, Komsomolskaja, Novokoeznetskaja, Teatralnaja, Kievskaja and Arbatskaja.;5;August 26, 2016
Great way to get around Moscow;A long way down and a long way up.  But a fast and efficient way of getting around Moscow.  Metro station was beautiful and really worth a visit.;5;August 26, 2016
An urban adventure!;Everyone told me to ride the amazing Moscow metro. As a veteran of metros all over the world, I thought I'd give it a go. I thought I'd carefully planned my route, but got confused by the signage once in the metro. Nothing is translated. Russian only is used. Buying tickets at the machines is translated, so OK. So, if you can reason out by number, color and the visual appearance of Russian words (as I did) then try it.   No maps on the walls like Paris or London... Just Russian words. The Revolution Place stop is very historic and has interesting sculpture in it; a couple of the others I rode weren't so attractive. Apparently there are others. Granted, still way cleaner than NY, London or Paris. The actual railway cars are pretty old, so noisy. At the end of the day, I felt a mild sense of accomplishment from puzzling this out.;4;August 26, 2016
worst organized metro;It is unclear what directions should you go to. The colours of metro lines and the labels with directions are different. Not display in wagons where you can read a next station name.;1;August 26, 2016
impressive and striking beauty;Most of the stations are not only symbols of the history of the metro , but an integral parl of the capital's architectural heritage. Each station has its thematic unity. Apart from this, we were impressed by the cleanness. The trains pass every one minute. The only negative is that all stations are only written on their alphabet.;5;August 26, 2016
Free visit to underground palaces;The best metro I have ever seen. Take the circle line, dont' miss ploshad revolucyi or Teatralnaya. The trains leave every 30 sec. so you can jump out, take pictures and hop back in. Don't take any silly tours just buy a Troika (Moscow Oyster card) and top it up with 300 RB - that's about 10 rides.;5;August 26, 2016
Great art work;This was a great experience.... The metro stations are a piece art, all the metro stations have a different ambience. Some have been decorated with war time bronze statues while other are constructed with different architecture with Arabic, Mediterranean, north African style. All in all they all are different from each other. I use to be more eager to get down the metro to see how the station is then to take the train :) .;5;August 26, 2016
Beautiful but not very...;Lots of stations with no English description.Some ways are closed but there is no signs. The staffs cloudnt speak English.;4;August 25, 2016
An underground museum!;We got the 7 day unlimited card and it was worth it!We visited nearly 20 stops just to see the architecture. The Metro is very well organised, one of the best we ever travelled in.;4;August 25, 2016
Dont miss it!;Even if it sounds not so easy to travel with the metro we appreciate a lot this experience.It is really a cultural place to see!;4;August 25, 2016
Wonderful Decoration Inside Moscow Metro;For the first time I used metro I had to ask about direction to the people but not many people could speak English. All direction were written in Russian so it's still confused to understand even I also downloaded Yandex Metro app with Russian & English. Some metro station has wonderful decorations that we all want to take pics. Every ride is RUB50.;4;August 25, 2016
Amazing;Visited the Metro & was astonished to see unbelievable Metro stations built in 1935 I think as rightly said Palace for the common man.;5;August 25, 2016
Inner circle is stunning;The moscow metro is beautifully designed with very nice patterns all over. Can be a bit hectic during rush hour and the outer metro stops are a little bit run down however the stunning artwork on some of the trains is unbelievable;4;August 25, 2016
Stunning!;The Moscow metro was one of my absolute favourite things about Moscow. Many of the stations are beautiful, it's relatively cheap to travel the whole day, and the trains are so regular that you hop of at one station to take a look and there's another train in 2 minutes on most lines! Definitely worth half a day of exploration.;5;August 25, 2016
NEVER MISS IT;Moscow metro is old but it connects Moscow with various lines and is used by Moscovites for their daily travels.But below the ground lies the beauty,grandeur of each stations with beautiful murals,drawings,chandeliers,statutes.It makes each station like a art gallery and the stations are different from each other.The visitors should not miss it;5;August 25, 2016
A must see;Apart from being a cheap and efficient means of transport, the Moscow Metro is a must see architectural masterpiece. Each station is a new wonder. A visit to Moscow would not be complete without using the metro.;5;August 24, 2016
Amazing!!;I want to go to only the subway tour. Every station is a different design.Especially komsomolskaya station.It's located on the way to leningradsky railstation.;5;August 24, 2016
Going underground in Russia!;The most beautiful art deco underground. I never miss the chance when in Moscow to make use of this mode of transport. Steeped in history and truly old this beautiful facility does not seize to amaze. It is worth a visit to Russia to go riding in trains...;5;August 24, 2016
Beautiful center city stations;Likely you need to use the Metro anyway to get around the city, however, in Moscow, the Metro is the attraction itself with its beautiful architecture and fin-de-siecle design. Not to be missed when visiting Moscow!!!;5;August 24, 2016
Just like in the myths only better;To see the best ones you have to take the brown circle metro line. you can use the metro as a hop-on hop-off and visit the main 4-5.;5;August 24, 2016
very usefull;great metro, take you al over moscow, very useful, cheap. metro goes every 1-2 minutes. you see police everyware, it is safe and clean.;5;August 24, 2016
Several stations are very interesting!;Some stations are especially worse seeing! Visit Maiakovskaia, Kropotkinskaia, Novoslobodskaia, Dostoevskaia! And some other.;5;August 24, 2016
Fast and safe;The decoration inside the stations are impressive. You don't have to wait long if you miss the train cause next one will come right after about 30 seconds. And I think metro stations are all overcrowded all over the world, no exception in Moscow. They have many lines and stations which makes it pretty convenient to travel to different destinations.;5;August 24, 2016
Art Museum in disguise;We did a side tour of the Moscow Metro when we were in Russia.  It was stunningly beautiful.  Splendid architecture, grandeur chandeliers, murals and statues were just incredible.  It was like a museum disguised as a metro station.  It is definitely worth seeing. However, I do think it is sad that a government would spend so much money and resource in promoting its own ideology, rather than improving the lives of its own people.  Yet, I guess that's part of their history.;4;August 24, 2016
Amazing sights and a great guide;The Moscow metro is a must see. The tour I did was run by free tours and although it wasn't free it was cheap. Just turn up at the meeting point any day at 2.00pm. The guide was friendly and informative. Each station was spectacular and completely different from the others. The metro system is a lesson in economy and efficiency. Australia could learn a lot.;5;August 23, 2016
Moscow Metro;Amazing.  Picturesque and clean. Did I say clean. I loved the stories behind each station destination and the incredible art and architecture. Highly recommend this tour.;5;August 23, 2016
Check with your hotel concierge which stations are the most beautiful;The Moscow Metro is famous for its beautiful stations; however, not all stations are the same. So check with your hotel concierge or other locals which stations are best (we were told, the stations on the brown line are the ones to visit). Metro tickets are cheap with unlimited transfers and stops, as long as don't exit the system. Buy yourself a ticket, stop at the stations you want to see and then continue with the next train. Calculate about 1 to 2 hours to see a few stations.;4;August 23, 2016
Certainly a must to see;If you are in Moscow you certainly have to visit or better to use it. I live in Moscow but traveling a lot and having seen metro in many countries (nearly all big cities in Europe, some cities in the US, Singapore) and I can state that no one can be compared to Moscow metro stations. They are really underground palaces -  just visit any of Red, Green and Blue line stations built in 30-50s. Many "new" stations are also good however they are similar to the stations in the other countries. And Moscow metro is by far the most accurate in timing and very clean - comparing only to Singapore. And it is absolutely safe - unlike in some other countries.;5;August 23, 2016
State of the art !!;Moscow Metro came into existence in the 1930's. The State of the Art design of Moscow Metro is indeed phenomenal. It connects you to almost entire Moscow. One definitely has to see the Metro Terminals while visiting Russia.;5;August 23, 2016
Puts London, New York and Paris to shame;We were taken by our tour guide on the metro and got off at three different stops to admire the chandeliers, wall murals and other art and crafts/ Amazing to think that these are stations. They would be vandalised in our country.;5;August 23, 2016
Marvellous architecture and design;Every time I enter a Moscow Metro station I am as deeply amazed as the first time. Most of the older stations are decorated with marble or granite panels, mosaic, or murals. Circle line is especially impressive and I would strongly recommend everyone who comes to Moscow to plan a circle trip over it - please start with Komsomolskaya station, which is the most beautiful.Recently, they started to make notifications in English as well. This, plus a superb floor navigation system, makes it very easy to find your way even if you don't speak or understand Russian. I have also noticed facilities for disabled people.I hope you would enjoy your visit!;5;August 23, 2016
Impressive subway;The Moscow metro system is impressive and widespread. It is quite far between the stations except for in the very city centre. Many of the stations are decorated and it can be goal in itself to travel around and see it. The ticket is cheap, and it can be bought in ticketing machines in the entrances.;4;August 23, 2016
Must do in Moscow;When you come to Moscow you must take the time to see some of the Stalin Era stations on the Metro. They are works of Art with historical significance and were built by Stalin to give a Palace to the people. the Moscow Metro is inexpensive and very easy to find your way around. most of the stations you will want to see are on the Brown(Ring ) line. With a little work you can pull all the information you need from the internet on which stations to see. You can also arrange tours if you are overwhelmed by the size of the Metro.;5;August 23, 2016
Moscow Metro;Extremely nice stations! Some of them are real architectural monuments. Don't try to go there on the peak time!;4;August 23, 2016
Group tour;Wow many expensive things there the light fittings the marble the painting the statue it's so elegant very beautiful;5;August 23, 2016
Brown circle line;We travelled the complete brown circle line, getting off at each station to check out decorations which were historical and varied, many of them mosaics. This is a cheap tourist "attraction" as it only requires one ticket, provided you don't surface, and the trains come along every few minutes so you can stay as long as you want at each station (some of which are decorated better than others)  Good idea for a wet day;4;August 23, 2016
Very original;Lot of beautiful stations. Different styles. My recommendations: Kiyevskaya-Koltsevaya, Mayakovskaya, Avyamotornaya, Taganskaya-Koltsevaya, Pl. Revolutsyi;5;August 23, 2016
Get ready to get lost!;For someone who has been taking Kazan's metro for a month, Moscow metro is a nightmare! It has lots of lines and It's kind of crowded in some hours of the day. But once you understand how it works you'll start realizing how beautiful the metro is, every stop is decorated in a unique way. Ps: don't worry if you got lost -which will probably happen -,  just search for a near information desk, they usually speak good English. And If you couldn't find any you can ask someone in the metro, Russians are very helpful and they always used to tell me what stop to talk or how to go to my destination.;5;August 22, 2016
Pretty clean;Clean and neat. Many people and some pictures was made from older age in Moscow. Pretty fresh experience.;4;August 22, 2016
Best Metro Ever;These station are like galleries or museums so impressive with chandeliers, art and Art Deco designs. So cheap to travel by metro also and see this amazing city;5;August 22, 2016
Metro works when traffic on streets stands;Moscow metro is probably the best mean of transport within city limits. It's reliable, fast and you'll be never late from your appointments. However Some metro stations may become very crowded during rush hours and become painful experience if you're even slightly claustrophobic;5;August 22, 2016
Finest metro in the world;To say that the metro  in Moscow is a work of art would be an understatement. Although incredibly busy most hours of the day, the metro definitely deserves a thorough visit. Watch out for pickpockets, they'll snatch your phone and run out of the car before it leaves, it's their favourite maneuver.;5;August 21, 2016
Amazing Moscow Metro;After reading about various sights in Moscow I was fascinated  that the idea of The Moscow Metro Underground Stations should even be mentioned as one of the top places to visit.....and one of the cheapest if you go on your own. You buy a block of tickets at a low cost which wiĺl give you travel throughout the same day or I would recommend using a guide from www.inspiremoscow.ru (ask for Irina)I believe they were opened in 1935 and built as Peoples Palaces designated to the Russian people on their way to work or dedicated to a particular State.They are truly magnificent some with marble walls chanderliers mossaics statues etc.When you go you will be thrilled as each station is generally different.....you can do a little research or leave it to your guide and perhaps visit the top 6-10 stations. One station has a concealed Nuclear area which can hold 2,000 people in the event of an attack.This undoubtably is my no1 choice...make sure that you dont miss it.;5;August 21, 2016
It's like a museum.;It does not look like other metros in other countries. It's very interesting and also very cheap to travel in the city. But I should warn you! Do not block people's way who are rushing to work and stuff. They won't be nice about it!;3;August 21, 2016
impressive!!;metros in moscow are definitely  a must see.dont miss out on the huge chandeliers on the ceiling.very well maintained with great interiors.very crowded!!;5;August 21, 2016
Amazing!;Catching a train will never be the same again. Some masterpiece stations that are works of art. A must visit for any visitor to Moscow.;1;August 21, 2016
Nice station but awful train;The platform looks old and charming but the trains are so old and smell not so good. I felt like I can't breathe. Moscow is full ot tourists. There should be English signs. Anyway, the staffs and guards are nice. They try to help even though they can't speak English.;3;August 21, 2016
The easiest way around the city is the metro.;The easiest way around the city is the metro. Beautiful sides, if you have the time explore them. My favorite one is the one closest to the red square.Traffic in Moscow could be brutal and this is the best and fastest way around.;5;August 21, 2016
Great way to get across the city;The metro of Moscow is a great and convenient way to travel. Some parts are already in English other parts only Russian. The prices are not expensive. If you are with more persons than it is better to take a card for 60 entries, that safes you almost 50%;5;August 21, 2016
The most impressive metro I have ever seen!;I would recommend that you buy a daily ticket and just stop on every stop and admire and feel the metro station. It is so unbelievable clean, huge, crowded and mostly beautiful.;5;August 19, 2016
Wow.;The Moscow Metro is so stunningly beautiful that it almost became the main tourist attraction of my trip! I even did a guided tour of it. Very cheap to use (£0.60p GBP) with some amazing stations. It is also regular and quick. I had heard it is overcrowded but found it less crowded than London. People may be put off by the Cyrillic station names but if you get an English/Cyrillic map from your hotel or from the Metro info desks then it's just like using any other metro system, dead easy and soon you start to recognise the Cyrillic characters. The only confusing part is that some transit stations aren't given the same name as the one you are changing lines from but you soon get used to this and just follow the signs to the red/blue/brown line etc.;5;August 19, 2016
Impressive in every aspect.;Highly recommend downloading any Metro application on the phone as it translates Cyrillic in English and vice-versa. It makes it much easier to go around and choose the stops according to time available. Cant miss stations : Kievskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Prospect Mira, Komsomolskaya.;5;August 19, 2016
The most beautiful metro in the world !!!;Forget NYC, forget Paris, forget Berlin...  the cleanest and most beautiful metro system is in Moscow.  All the stations are large and spacious with each station decorated with unique art worth of a fine museum collection.  The trains are clean, spacious and run every two minutes.;5;August 18, 2016
Impressive subway;Definitely check out the efficient and beautiful Moscow subway. There is no advertisements on the walls as you descend the long escalator to the subways. The stations we used were clean, many had chandeliers and wonderful artwork. Wifi is available in the cars.;5;August 18, 2016
Cleanest metro I have ever been in;This is a very beautiful station filled to the brim with history. This was the easiest way around the city of you wanted to skip traffic and cabs. Not to badly priced to travel around Moscow.;5;August 18, 2016
Impressive metro system;Taking the metro in Moscow is stepping back in history, contemplating art ,sculptures and observing the day to day of its citizens , definitely a most see underground world.;5;August 18, 2016
Art and Efficiency;Our visit was on a Friday afternoon during rush hour.  Lots of people, but well worth the time.  The artwork (and its history) was delightful.  The ride on the metro was an experience to remember.  Every time we got on, the young men would get up to offer us their seats -- what a polite group!;5;August 18, 2016
Not as monumental as was expecting;I was expecting a very sophisticated decoration, instead some station are quite vulgar and some other have a more elaborated decoration but not so rare as it is announced.;3;August 18, 2016
Amazing  Sight;It's a work of art no where in the world can match . You need a tour guide to get the best out of the experience . Not so crowded as London and Trains run regularly .;5;August 18, 2016
Beautiful;Each station is a museum that has it's own history. Very clean and very busy. Trains are arriving every 30-40seconds and keeping the flow going very effectively. Police on the stations looking after safety of the passengers.;5;August 18, 2016
Metro stations are five star.;No where in the world I have seen metro train tours being conducted for large groups accompanied with trained professional guides. This is sufficient to describe Moscow Metro.;5;August 18, 2016
Definitely artsy;Really recommend a visit to as many stations, they are all unique and very artsy (somewhat Soviety). They do give an impression of grand underground palaces.;5;August 17, 2016
You'll never forget it!;If you only visited one of the fantastically beautiful Moscow Metro stations, for instance, Mayakovskaya, Plotshad Revolutsii, Kievskaya, Komsomolskaya, or many others, you'll never forget it. The best time to visit is early morning or late evening, because the stations are overcrowded in the daytime, then you can value the interior and decoration of different time styles (starting from the 30s).;5;August 17, 2016
A Must;Moscow metro is a museum, in and of itself. Just make sure to avoid rush hour - late morning early afternoon are best for exploring the most beautiful metro stations. Most city guides will provide you with the best 10 metro stations to see. Great activity on a rainy or snowy day.;5;August 17, 2016
Spectacular but for what purposes?;There is no doubt that Moscow's subway system is an enormous spectacular art gallery by itself, but who needs it to get on and off trains? The maintenance is impressive and must cost a fortune.;4;August 17, 2016
Best way to get around in dear old Moskva;Get yourself a convenient ticket for 3 days or any other easy-pass type of ticket that you can swipe.  Saves you time as you don't have to stand in line for tokens at counters. These tickets are good for all public transport, which is a big help.Riding in Moscow metros is an experience from start to finish.  I don't know how long the longest escalator is in the world--one that the general public use every day -- but I am going to bet that it is in Moscow's underground system. The decorative and ornamental elements of many stations is so well documented that I am not talking here about the museum-like appearance of some stations.Negative--long, long walks to make connections from one line to another.  Not at all friendly for the physically challenged.Positive--speed, comfort, and the courtesy with which fellow passengers always give up seats for those who might need to sit down.Note:  people with pace-makers have a special entrance at nearly all metro stations.  If you wear one, just point to your heart, or say "cardio-stimulator," and you are good to go.;5;August 17, 2016
Super efficient, charming and cheap;The Moscow Metro is safe, clean and efficient. There are trains every couple of minutes and tickets cost next to nothing. The stations are spectacular, mid-century gems! Some of the trains are old and noisy, but this just adds to the charm of the experience. Be aware that most of the signs inside the metro are exclusively in Russian, but they are easy to figure out and there are maps everywhere. I do not know why you would travel any other way in Moscow!;5;August 17, 2016
Magnificent Metro stations;Moscow has many attractions but the stations of inner city Moscow were an absolute unexpected highlight.   We visited most if not all.   They are mostly in the Art Deco style but all different.    I just loved them.    Metro very easy to use and knowledge of the Russian language unnecessary thankfully as hardly anybody speaks English in Russia.   Designated tours also available if you're not confident of doing it alone.   Unmissable!!!;5;August 17, 2016
Best metro system in the world!;One must go inside the metro in Moscow, even if you are not planning are using it for transportation. All the stations are beautifully decorated. I can assure you that you will be impressed. Not only is this metro the most beautiful metro/subway in the world, but also the easiest to use. The stations are spread out over Moscow and the maps are clear and easy to read. The trains arrive fast and if you need to switch lines, it is easy to do. This form of transportation is a lot cheaper and faster than getting a taxi. The Moscow traffic is horrible, so the metro is always a safe option. Best metro system in the world!;5;August 17, 2016
A Trip Into the Soviet Era;The metro stops decorated during the Soviet era as "palaces for the people" are fascinating. Some are even beautiful. Each one is different, but reflects Soviet era thinking in a fascinating way. And the metro itself, as a way to get around, is cheap and easy.;5;August 16, 2016
Amazing artwork in the Metro stations;This is one of the most efficient Metro systems in the world, with trains arriving every 50 seconds. Most of the original stations are also works of art, with marbled halls, mosaics, murals, chandeliers and more. Take the opportunity to see some of the statues at Ploschad' Revolutsi station.;5;August 16, 2016
Old and classic;Be ready to experience some old and classic Soviet era style of metro....No English boards...so be ready with some good translator from Russian.;4;August 16, 2016
Unbelievable architecture and beauty;You've got to see the metro stations in moscow and St. Petersburg to believe the beauty and architecture. Have never seen such beautiful stations anywhere in the world. Most of the stations are at least 100 m below ground level and you would almost feel dizzy going on the escalators.;5;August 16, 2016
Easy to navigate for novices who don't speak or read Russian;Very clean if busy metro. Used google maps to navigate the metro during our 4 day stay in Moscow. A bit confusing in changing lines in a station but was able to get by asking youngsters who were more than willing to help;5;August 16, 2016
A day in the Metro;It's one of the most beautiful under ground train station ! must visit and explore all stops, each stop reveals different Design , Art, and Sculptures.In one of the stops there is the famous dog that everybody must rub his nose for good luck.;5;August 16, 2016
Beautiful;I've never seen a metro like it.  We saw three stations and all were beautiful.  Very clean and safe.  You must see it if you go to Moscow.;4;August 15, 2016
Wow!!;This is the most beautiful metro I have ever seen in the world (out of the 20 some countries I've been to). Just breathtaking-fancy, grand, colorful.;5;August 15, 2016
Moscow Metro tour by yourself.;When you know how to use the Metro, you are home-free in Moscow. You only need one ticket for the whole group. Get a ticket with 20, 40 or  60 rides. Scan your ticket once will let one person pass throuhthe gate. The number of rides on your ticket will decrease by one. The most interesting stations are on the "blue "line,  and " red" line.  Hup on and off as many as you like (if you have time , do some homework for the stations.) Transfer as many as you like following color-code or line number , just do not get out of the station before end of your tour. To reach your destination, the best way is to count the stops with a Metro map in your hand.;5;August 15, 2016
Crazy beautiful and popular.;It's really beautiful place but you need to know some life hacks to use it with comfort. First of all newer use it from 8-11 and 17-19 at working days. And use toilet before going down to metro - because their are no toilets in Moscow metro..(;3;August 15, 2016
The Grand Moscow Metro;The underground palases called the metro stations are art galleries that serve as museums. With their chandeliers, paintings and bronze sculptures, they are really something unique. The Escalators which are probably amongst the longest in the world take us to these underground fortresses whcih some say also served as bomb shelters.;4;August 15, 2016
The worlds most glamorous subway!!;Worth it to see a few of these spectacular stations build during the time of Stalin! Imagine a US subway with chandeliers and mosaic art!;5;August 14, 2016
Majestic - Efficient - Soviet;Moscow's metro system is extensive, its many lines spitting passengers out pretty much anywhere they need to be. It is also efficient. Trains come along very often and even though they get very busy, there always seems to be enough room to squeeze on. Mainly, the system is beautiful. Each station looks very distinct. The mosaics, marble, columns, chandeliers, sconces, and other ornate features were public works projects during the Soviet era, hence the myriad Lenin and Stalin mosaics, statues of workers, and other Soviet motifs. A lot of the tile and marble came from cathedrals which were stripped and then demolished during Soviet times. A very pretty, efficient system!;5;August 14, 2016
The most amazing Metro;I heard that Moscow Metro was great, but seeing it in person is a completely different thing.It's amazing. I saw every single station in the brown line, the circle in a very short time. Also se on the green line.It's a piece of art that you must see if in Moscow.;5;August 14, 2016
Beautiful Architechure;So many interesting and beautiful aspects to individual stations. We were lucky enough to have a mini tour, if you have time try to do this.;5;August 14, 2016
Very interesting!;The Moscow metro, known as the Underground Palace, opened in Stalin was in 1935, being the world's largest by passenger density, carrying around 3.3415 billion people a year and about 9.2 million people a day. Its network consists of 200 stations, distributed in 12 lines by 333.4 km (the sixth longest in the world after New York, London, Paris, Tokyo and Seoul). It's impossible to visit every historic station. And you have to spend at least a half day to know the most interesting ones.;5;August 14, 2016
Wonderful stations;Efficient transport as well as beautiful historical stations.  It does pay to know your station name in Russian vs the English name only.  Although the mosaics and statues can be appreciated alone a tour brings the symbolism and history to life.;5;August 14, 2016
The  Moscow  Metro  System.;As  part  of  our  Moscow  by  Night  tour  our  guide  took  us  for  three  train  journeys  on  the  Moscow  Metro.  What  an  exciting  time  that  was.  On  the  first  occasion  we  travelled  by  escalator  down  to  the  station  platform  --  deep  underground.  There  are  not  too  many  escalators  as  long  as  that  one  --  it  kept  going  and  going.  Once  on  the  platform  we  were  impressed  by  the  station  construction,  the  art work and  the  size  of  the  platforms  and  corridors.  We  did  not  have  to  wait  long  for  a  train  to  come  for  any  of  our  trips.   Even  though  we  were  travelling  at  about  11.00pm  on  a  Sunday  night  there  were  plenty  of  passengers  on  each  of  the  trains.    I  think  travel  at  about  8.45am  on a  Monday  morning  would  be  an  interesting  experience  -  I'll  pass  if  you  don't  mind.This  is  a  "must do   experience"  while  in  Moscow.  For  your  comfort  only  go  late  at  night,  for  your  safety  go  with  a  group.;5;August 14, 2016
Take a couple of hours to visit certain metro stations;You can spend a whole day in the metro if you want.  It is nice to look to people, it is very crowdy, but some stations are really very beautiful.;5;August 14, 2016
Its the best metro I have so far seen;The trains are always on time. During the rush hour every 2 minutes there is an extra train. Mosaics are statues are unique. Be careful for the pick pockets!!!!;5;August 14, 2016
The most beautiful metro in the world;The most beautiful metro in the world. Several stations are pieces of art and are full of history. I did the tour with a guide and I think it is totally worth it. You'll get a much better idea of the history and art in the metro. This is an obligatory visit in Moscow.;5;August 13, 2016
Well spent 3 hours exploring;Telling anyone in the West of planning the tour of a dozen or so metro stations would raise some eyebrows, not in Moscow though.  Many metro stations here resemble museums, mausoleums, concert halls or halls of fame.  Really has to be seen to be believed.;5;August 13, 2016
Amazing;Despite having heard about it, seeing is believing!The Moscow Metro is truly amazing! When we show our photos to friends we have to tell them "No! this is not the museum! It's the Metro!" Socialism/ Communism had its high points! And this sure is one of them!;5;August 12, 2016
Stunning sirprise;As you enter the majority of the underground system you will be amazed at the opulence and designs within the stations, totally unexpected considering the majority of Moscow is pretty plain ( Major sites excepted);5;August 12, 2016
Fast and warmer!;I advise to buy a pass for a couple of days and discover the metro on your on. Beware that the moscovites are very busy people and few of them speak english. It's a little adventure. To know the direction of the metro read the sign that are above the line.;5;August 11, 2016
Unlike any other;The Moscow subway is wonderfully clean and beautifully maintained. The stations are fascinating. Definitely worth the visit.;5;August 11, 2016
Every station is a unique place, history on the station walls;Every station is a unique place, like a small museum, really nice decorations, every station shows part of the history. A must see when visiting Moscow, and you probably will since it's the most convenient way of transport. Subway is very loud, noisy (more then usual, but also very fast). There is a free Wi-Fi on the subway train but you need to have Russian phone number or surrounding countries number. Strong security measures on entrance. Pretty cheap ticket (very affordable, three days 400 R).;5;August 11, 2016
Puts the London Underground firmly in the shade;I've always heard that the Metro in Moscow was designed and built, by Stalin in the 1930s, as the Peoples' Palaces. Visiting it in person, I was staggered by the size and grandeur of the stations we walked and rode through, and by the amazing architecture and wealth of art which featured throughout the network of 200 station - though we didn't see them all.Our well-informed guide sensibly chose the evening to visit and ride the Metro, rather than the daytime, when we would have had to compete with the 5 million Muscovites who use it daily.  As it was, it was remarkably easy and trouble-free to travel on, with clean,  litter-free and graffiti-free stations, fast, frequent, comfortable and uncrowded trains, and signs in English and Russian everywhere making our journeys easy to follow, and without the risk of getting lost.All in all - I loved it!;5;August 11, 2016
The older metro stations are always fascinating;Moscow's metro connects you to the entire city.  It's easy to learn, makes sense (not like Tokyo), and is efficient.  Having said that, forget about it!  Look around, the stations are amazing, especially in the heart of Moscow.  Don't forget to look up at Mayakovskaya, the hall where Stalin had a state dinner during WWII...  The mosaics on the ceiling will blow your mind!  Make sure you get unlimited pass for 1, 3, or 7 days.;5;August 10, 2016
best of moscow;I stayed in the city for 2 days and liked the metro most - amazing stations, and the atmosphere !!! I felt like back 100 years in an classic  movie  - also the metro very good organized / convenient and cheap ! a MUST in Moscow!;5;August 10, 2016
Where classic meets efficiency;The Russian metro is (unexpectedly) a must see for any traveller: you can get 20 trips for 500 руб (around 5£). This is already a good reason per second, compared to the overly expensive London tube...Metro access does not give away anything about what is expecting you down the incredibly high escalators (the one in Heathrow T5 to access the transfer train is child play compared to these ones): the central and oldest stations (i.e. Arbat) offer very high ceilings with an amazing, rich, breathtaking paintings, mosaics, statues, and everything you would never expect from a metro station.They are true works of art.Sometimes I think that Moscow is one of those cities which is far better underground than overground.I surprised many colleagues who were brave enough to commute with me by metro rather than by taxi: such unexpected beauty...Words like "claustrophobic" or "dirty" or "delay" are as far as the sun from the moon here.Trains are constantly coming, no delays, people get in and out efficiently.The only real downside is that they are not accessible for disabled people.Other than that, a must see if you go to Moscow;4;August 10, 2016
Magnificent architecture;The entrance to the metro costs RUR 50. You do not have to pay extra when you change the line.  Start the trip around Moscow metro from Mayakovskaya station, because: it is in the centre; it is not a change hub, so you cannot use the wrong entrance; and it is beautiful.  It is one of the early stations 1938, with rolled steel columns. steel. and it is also a deep station. The real beauty is the “One Day of Soviet Country”. It starts in the morning with blooming cherries, develops into the afternoon with a paratrooper, into the night with airplanes and into early morning again with pioneers and factories. Then go to Belorusskaya built in the 1952 and is relatively modest but has many scenes of happy life in Soviet Byelorussia. Next is Novoslobodskaya with its fantastic stained glass   Proceed to Komsomolskaya Stalin empire style of white marble and plaster decorated with gold mosaics.  . With its bronze sculptures Ploshchad Revolutsii has become the best known and most photographed station in Moscow particularly the figure of a frontier guard with rubbed nose.  Finally, Park Pobedy (Victory Park) with finely polished red and white marble dedicated to the Patriotic War of 1812and to the Great Patriotic War (the name, under which WWII is known in Russia).. The deepest in Moscow metro (64 meters below surface).;5;August 10, 2016
quick access to all Moscow;I love Moscow subway, despite the fact that it''s crowded, it is the fastest transport whiting the whole Moscow , quick, without any traffic jam and those who values the art and architect, each stations has it's beauty;4;August 10, 2016
Very efficient, minimal english;We took the train from the airport to our hotel near the red square. With the help of lonely planet, we didn't have too much trouble taking the metro. There is very little english signage, although the main metro lines map has english translations. We had a little difficulty initially working out which direction we should be heading, but a local noticed our confused faces and gave us some help. The next time we were able to manage to work out the direction ourselves.The artwork and the architecture was amazing, an old relic of Stalin's. There are tours of the Metro to see the highlights of this artwork, we didn't manage to fit it in but heard really good things about it.;4;August 10, 2016
Fast and efficient;Solid and realiable service. Train arrives at terrifying speed every 90 seconds or so. Notice that each metro stop is decorated in an unique theme. Though we didn't have the chance to do all of them, it is recommended to take the circle line and stop at each station to view the interior.;5;August 9, 2016
An adventure in history...;If possible, use a guide.  Various stations depict chapters in Russian history and art but worth an adventure.  If on your own, have a map and be aware of pickpockets, color coded routes and the cyrllic alphabet to assure direction though one fee (50 rubles) will allow you to explore all day.  Very noisy.  No matter what you do, American s can not pass for locals and could become targets if you look lost although many 25+ citizens know some English.;4;August 9, 2016
So beautiful!;I've wanted to see these stations for years now so it was amazing to actually be there finally. They are absolutely beautiful. You really must visit!;5;August 9, 2016
Beautiful;Having seen metros across the world, Moscow metro takes the cake. Lavish metro stations make it a site to remember and they are decorated beautifully. Definitely worth a visit whenever in Moscow!!;5;August 9, 2016
It's a series of underground galleries;There's many stations that are basically cool underground galleries that you can see for free. Each has a completely different style and each one is worth the time. One looks like a room from a classical castle, the other like a church of humanity (with stained glass pieces depicting common people at work), and yet another as a strange futuristic complex.;5;August 9, 2016
Very easy to use -;The metro in Moscow is huge and very easy to use. A map of the metro lines is provided everywhere. Unfortunately the information is only in Russian Language (also the writing) but with attention you can reach your destination. The metro staff don't know English at all...you cannot talk to them to ask anything because they won't understand. The price for a trip normally is 50 rubles but if you get a card (the equivalent of Oyster card in London) and you just add money on it the machine will charge you 32 rubles for one trip instead of 50 rubles. You just need to go to the ticket office and ask for a card and give to the ticket officer the amount you want to start with.The metro stations in Moscow are very nice and clean and most of them have great architecture on the walls. Moscow is famous for the most beautiful metro stations in the world. The travel card for the metro can be also used for buses, trains and all other public transportation. Very easy to use. You just need to pay attention to the language;5;August 8, 2016
Beautiful statins;The picture here is Mayakovskaya Station. It is beautiful. The best means of transportation in Moscow, and cheap. It costs about a dollar (50 rubels).;5;August 8, 2016
You must ride the Moscow Subway;I really didn't believe it when people said the Moscow Subway is like a museum, but it is.  Each station has it's unique theme and and beauty surrounding it.  It's not really too difficult to use even if you don't read Cyrillic.  We used an English map to figure out the station and then looked at the Cyrillic translation and once on the subway just counted.  We felt very safe and loved getting easily from place to place.;5;August 7, 2016
MUST SEE! Go with a Guide;The pictures you take and show others will make them think you are in an art museum, or perhaps the Palace of Versailles!!!! Wow! Especially coming from New York, but with the frame of reference of such subways that we have been to, such as Tokyo's and Singapore, I can honestly say that this is the most exquisite (imagine using that word to describe a subway!) subway I have ever seen. Go with a guide (we had the good fortune to be with extraordinary guide, Daniel Petrov) so that you will not only be escorted to the best subway stops, but also learn the interesting stories/history of the subway's development.;5;August 7, 2016
The Undergroud Museum;The finest and the most attractive metro stations are at Moscow. The art works on the walls and the ceilings give the passers the feel of a museum visitor. Besides, the metro stations in Moscow are the deepest underground stations according to the best of my knowledge. It is worth taking a ride!;5;August 7, 2016
Fabulous!;The Moscow Metro is a rapid transit system serving Moscow, Russia and its neighboring towns opened in 1935. The Metro then had 7-mile line and 13 stations. As of 2016, the Metro extended to 200 stations and 207 mile as one of the busiest metro system and the 5th longest in the world. The system is mostly underground. The deepest section is 243 feet underground at the Park Pobedy station (has a 413 feet long escalator). During the World War II, the Metro became bomb shelters-sheltered half a million people there.The Moscow subway is called the most beautiful in the world – 44 of the 200 stations are listed as cultural heritage sites. We saw the “paintings” and mosaics on the ceilings, statues/sculptures on the walls or stood on the floors- all tried to tell a story or two.;5;August 6, 2016
Five different stations visited;With our local guide and tour guide, our group rode the metro getting on and off at five different stops to view beautiful art work. The trains stops are brief, so we all needed to keep together. Never did I see graffiti or any dirt. We capped the tour off at our last stop at Red Square. Everything was lighted, magical time.;5;August 6, 2016
A must do!;Taking the Moscow Metro is akin to walking through a national heritage site! I took this photo at Taganskaya metro station. The only downside, is that most of the metro stations are not written in English so it can be challenging navigating around. Would definitely have a Russian speaker/friend travelling with you if possible.;5;August 6, 2016
WOW;Hard to believe that you can take tours of a Metro system.  Many of the stations are really works of art.  Just amazing!;5;August 6, 2016
what else..;I think there isn't anything like Subway stations in Moscow. You just have to come and visit. I took around 600 photo here but to be honest, there isn't any picture can show you what your eyes can see over there.;5;August 6, 2016
Very nice;Metro in moscow is exelent!! Its nice and  bright. Good security. It takes a few trips befor u totaly understand how this Maze of tunnels work :p only thing i think is strange is that the metro stopp going at 0100.;5;August 6, 2016
This is the real Moscow;Next to the Rammstein song "Moskau", the Moscow Metro is what best captures the city's soul: always crowded. sometimes shabby and worn, sometimes the most exquisit piece of art. There's of course fantastic to see the beautiful stations in the center but go a few more stops to experience the contrasts. people everywhere, all the time, you'll see everyone from beggars to businessmen and lots of average Ivans and Olgas but as in all public transportation the world over all are hypnotized by tablets and phones and eBooks. As a bonus, the Moscow metro works very well for transportation! It will probably take you where you want to go far quicker that with taxi since the streets are congested about 20 hrs a day.;5;August 6, 2016
Moscow Metro;More  palace than a metro station.  Beautiful mosaics adorn the walls, paintings adorn the ceilings, sculptures are plentiful and beautiful chandeliers line the ceilings.  Each station is   different and distinct, with lots of marble.;5;August 6, 2016
Wow, just Wow!;This Metro system deep underground in Moscow is a site tourists should NOT pass up. The art work & stained glass, lighting fixtures are all fantastic. This is the cleanest Metro system I have ever seen. The trains run every two minutes so you better be ready to get on and get off before it takes off again. Don't, whatever you do in Moscow, pass this up.;5;August 5, 2016
Amazing;We were offered a tour of the Metro as an optional extra by our guide, but we decided instead to go by ourselves. We went around 9pm on Saturday evening, and did not return to the stop nearest our hotel until around midnight. We are both women, and at no time did we we feel at all threatened - in fact, there were plenty of Russian women out late, travelling alone as well. The Moscow metro was MUCH easier to navigate than the London Underground, felt MUCH safer, was MUCH cleaner (I saw literally NO litter at all, not even a single cigarette stub), MUCH less crowded (in fact, not crowded at all), and SO SO absolutely beautiful. Stunning stations, with statues, mosaics, stained glass, chandeliers. If you like Art Deco, then you will LOVE this experience. We just travelled from station to station, hopped off at each station, took some photos, hopped on again, and carried on. As a bonus, the locals were very friendly, offering to help on one or two occasions when we paused a bit discussing which way to go, although it was all pretty simple to navigate, and colour coded so you do NOT need to be able to read Russian, and it does not matter that it is not all translated into English. As an added bonus, the Russian men are extremely polite, and will always get up and offer their seat. Do not miss this - fabulous;5;August 5, 2016
Moscow Metro;A must! So much to see down there! The money they spent is unbelievable ! You don't have to to travel anywhere as each station is stunning even the lighting!, there are brass statue's which if you watch the people going on their busy day actually touch and pray as they go by! , fairly easy to get around as it is colour coded with numbers! Good luck though!!;5;August 5, 2016
Easy to use;50p one way. Easy to buy tickets with automatic machines, English option. Clean and tidy, good way of getting around, we felt safe. Strangers happy to help find your stop.;4;August 5, 2016
It is that amazing!;Wandering around the underground is like a step to another time, when architecture and decor really seemed to matter. Many of the stations have been embellished in some way and it's well worth a few stops to experience it. Sorry transport for London, you're a little behind I'm afraid!;4;August 5, 2016
The most stunning architectural achievement.;Moscow Metro has over 200 stations.   It is the cheapest way to travel (40p for each journey regardless of how long that is).   If you plan and research carefully, you can spend many days visiting the stations that have architectural features.   There are many booklets available showing which stations have these.   I have planned my next visit, estimate it will take me 3 days to see 22 stations, and cost me £1.20p!!   Take a packed lunch, brace yourself for the crowds (weekends are better), sit back and enjoy being in a "living" museum.;5;August 5, 2016
Top attraction!;It is one of the best attractions in town. Circular line 5 has by far the best decorated stations. Do not miss Taganskaya, Kiyevskaya, Komsomolskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Mayakovskaya.;5;August 5, 2016
Mayor Emanuel...listen up!;Clean, beautiful, efficient, cheap.... did I mention clean?  Not all the station names are in the Latin alphabet, so go down prepared with both Latin and Cyrillic station names. Or just get on one colored line, and ride it beginning to end, and do another one. Once you are down there you can stay all day for the price of one ticket.;5;August 4, 2016
wonderful piece of art....;our group visited some stations and all agreed that is the most beautiful metro in the world even the nice stations were built in STALIN era.....;5;August 4, 2016
Extended;Beautiful stations with many station at many points. You can go everywhere by metro. Some station are in deep of the earth and you should be patient to reach your destination. Just get a map and walk everywhere by metro.;5;August 4, 2016
Excellent !!!!;Class apart each metro station is unique, must visit use day pass available in 1 day, 3 days ... to obtain this pass better if you have written this request in Russian language and show at booking counter... they will understand better instead struggle at counter.This pass is valid for surface transfer as well, Bus / Tram....Moscow metro is an experience for sure;5;August 4, 2016
Save your feet;The Moscow metro has a very large network with a lot of stations located close to tourism attractions, making it invaluable to use unless you want to spend a fortune on guides/cars/taxis.As the metro does not have bilingual Russian / English signs in Moscow unlike St. Petersburg the best way is to know the colour code of the line, where you are and count the stations you need to go. Obviously the problem is which direction when confronted with the line-the attendants in booths at the bottom of each escalator generally do not speak English but if You say the name of the station they understand and point to the directional side of platforms, so that you can easily manage the trips.Suggest by single tickets at the machines as the 2tickets system sometimes only gives you one ticket that works. Interesting to see the depth of the system and also the earth n marble of some stations;3;August 4, 2016
Relatively easy to navigate;The Russian Metro is a superior experience in all ways. The sense of history is ever present and it is the primary form of transport for most of Moscow. There is a downloadable app that makes the navigation process easy and all you have to do is look at Moscow traffic congestion to be convinced to skip Uber or taxi and go as the locals do. Moscow summers are quite warm and the packed cars add to the heat but the overall experience is necessary if you want to get a real feel for the heartbeat of the Moscow pace of life.;5;August 4, 2016
Floor under Floor;There is a saying " When in Rome to as Romans do" and I say when in Moscova ride a metro. A piece of engineering. Do not compare with the tube of London. Wait for the surprise when you enter. A museum inside and you can take metro from 2 levels down. Only one sentence-" Do not Miss";4;August 4, 2016
The metro system it a must!;Take a tour in the metro system an especially the circle(5). All the stops are unique and got their history. Extremely well preserved and just mindblowing to see. The metro in general is very efficient and every metro comes every second minute. They also got (one of the?) the world longest escalator.;5;August 3, 2016
Impressive Engineering and Artwork;I've traveled quite a bit, always using public transportation in urban settings whenever possible; Moscow's metro ranks at the very top. Transporting many times what NYC subways do daily, its efficiency is incredible. But even better for tourists--so many of the stations provide incredible photo ops.  Architects have planned these well -- the stations all have unified themes.  Very beautiful and all contribute knowledge about Russia, whether historical or touting political (propaganda) agendas.* I see another reviewer cited that some stations on the ring route don't allow photos--I didn't experience that. So many have already posted photos here; I won't add mine.;4;August 3, 2016
Moscow Metro;Amazing underground but you need to have a guide if you don't know Russia as it is difficult to understand the maps.;5;August 3, 2016
Funny to visit, but sometimes not so good for travel;There are several station to visit, for example, Novoslobodskaya and Kievskaya (circle line), Revolution Square (deep blue line), Mayakovskaya (Green line) - mostly old style stations. Modern stations not so interested. Btw, I didn't visit all of them - too many :). The good - you know how many time will cost you to go from one station to other at any time.The bad - sometimes (morning and evening traffic jams) there are too many people and stuff.;4;August 3, 2016
Imperial Russian Metro rail;We have taken a metro tour for 3 station journey.It is looking old with old tiles & decor. Totally underground and maintain its speed & efficiency..;5;August 3, 2016
nice to visit;nice to visit but very hard to find your way ! all is in Russian. So you need a good map and some explanation from your hotel to know how to use it !;4;August 3, 2016
Great experiance;Travelled on the metro as a group, stopping off at various stations to view the decoration. all stations are slightly different. well worth the visit.;4;August 3, 2016
An attraction in itself;The Moscow metro is not only an easy way to get about the city, many of its stations are worth looking at just for the architecture, statues and art work (e.g. Revolution Square, Kievskaya, Mayakovskaya). Tickets can easily be bought from machines for 50 roubles, but the best value is to buy a card from the ticket office for 20 trips for 650 roubles (the machines at the barrier tell you how many trips left). It is handy to know a bit of the Russian alphabet to help you find your way around the metro, but locals are also very helpful.;5;August 3, 2016
underground palace of Moscow;Lined with the pilfered marbles and gold leaf fixtures all taken from churches, this is amazing, each terminal has a theme, and it is all automated.;5;August 2, 2016
Beatiful craftmanship right under your feet;The ring route around the city centre has the most beautiful stations. Unfortunately you are not allowed to take pictures and there are policemen watching on every station.;4;August 2, 2016
Best Looking Metro;I am originally from NYC and therefore quite familiar with the subway (metro) in New York. Well, the Moscow Metro is spectacular compared to NYC and in fact any other metro I have seen including many European and USA systems. Not all stations are beautiful in Moscow but there are several that are jaw dropping. This is a must if you visit Moscow.;5;August 2, 2016
Highlight of our trip;This metro system is like no other. We actually spent an entire day of our trip traveling from metro station to metro station. Each is a little museum so not only did we see beautiful, historic architecture and art projects but we got to mingle with the locals. My goal is to make it back to Moscow and visit every single station along the line.;5;August 2, 2016
the stastions are beautiful with amazing architechture and design;Let's get real, ok it is nice; but too crowded, the most aggressive crowd with suitcases , very thick line on the escalator, all signs are written in Russian (Cyrillic alphabet), nobody speaks English (mean metro employees). Got lost every other time I took a train there. Lot of sophisticated architecture in some of the central stations.The signs are in Russian, a new tourist would be lost. Unless you understand the Russian alphabet its quite hard to find your way around The announement are also in Russian only;4;August 2, 2016
Who would have thought to decorate the metro stations?;Visited 4 or 5 Metro stations and they were all different and distinct.  It was amazing to see not only the decor which ranged from chandeliers to statues to paintings but also to see how clean and graffiti free the stations were.  Recommend traveling during the middle of the day to avoid rush hour in the a.m. and p.m. as this is the main mode of transportation.  Also, travel light to avoid tempting the pick pockets.;5;August 1, 2016
People's Palaces, see them all on one cheap ticket!;A basement price to see fantastic stations which are Stalin's expression of what the people need.  The main line of interest is the circle line no. 5, which has the added advantage of giving announcements in english and an electronic indicator of which station you are at.  Some are extravagant in decoration, all are poems of artistic praise to the stalinist ideal, and the Russian people.  Fantastic insight to Russian culture and thought.  Also, metro tickets are CHEAP.  Once you are into the system you can go as far as you want on one ticket, as long as you don't exit.  You could spend hours roaming these extraordinary airy, spacious and decorated stations.;5;August 1, 2016
Metro station tour;The Metro stations of Moscow are amazing with sculptures and art works through many. You can grab a single journey ticket (50 Rubl ) a jump on and off the train at each station, check out the platform and jump on the next train. The trains come frequently. The central brown line is easiest and possibly best although you can try others, I only did a few more on the blue and dark green lines.  With some people charging over $50 for a tour you can do this for $1.;5;August 1, 2016
Aesthetically, there is nothing quite like it;It's like walking in a museum when you take the Moscow Metro. It is just amazingly beautiful with the paintings, the lights/chandeliers, sculptures and mosaic that adorn it. The only setback is that, it's not ideal to stay and admire it because the trains are roaring loud! Hope the government will eventually replace them with more quiet trains. But mind you, they are very efficient, like the Paris Metro.;5;August 1, 2016
Clean but loud;The tickets are cheap and trains and stations are clean but they are so loud. But the architecture is amazing.;3;August 1, 2016
Real Underground Art!;If you are lucky enough to visit Moscow, make sure you take time to ride the metro! Having lived and traveled extensively, I don't say this about any other metro I've ever been in. However, the Moscow metro, especially the Ring stations, are spectacular! It doesn't even matter anymore if you don't read Cyrillic because the maps and stations have transliterated titles! It's a miracle! There are sculptures and mosaics and paintings of workers, athletes and Uncle Lenin. Try not to go during rush hour. Go the loop and get out at each stop and look at the Socialist Realism and the craftsmanship! Enjoy and don't fear!;5;August 1, 2016
Artistic Metro Stations;If someone says i am going to visit metro station as a tourist destination, people will laugh at him, but visiting Moscow metro stations is like visiting a museum. It was started in 1935 and till now it looks amazing. The most amazing is the Victory Square station which is 100 meters below and has the second longest escalator of 124 meters. The stations are decorated with brass sculpture and mosaic decorations on the wall and roofs. The patterns will differ at each station.;5;August 1, 2016
Some amazing achitecture !!!;The Moscow Metro system, is a awsome feat of engineering, and of VAST proportions, and it contains some of the best & most interesting architecture in it's stations, they are a sight to behold and must be seen, as trying to describe them would take forever. An amazing fact is that the frequency of the trains is amost unbelievable, on average, they arrive within " 2 MINUTES " of each other constantly, and are ALWAYS FULL !!! Without this system, Moscow would be gridlocked, and has immense traffic problems on the roads. It is a genuine " EXPERIENCE " if not a problematic one trying to navigate, as there's NO english names for the stations !!!!!!;4;July 31, 2016
Stunning architecture;The Moscow Metro was my favorite site to see in Moscow. The individual stations are very ornate and strikingly beautiful in their own right. The trains run on time and the system allows you to efficiently travel to almost any part of Moscow.;5;July 31, 2016
Take a tour to learn about what you can see;We took a Metro tour with the Free Moscow Walking Tour group. This one wasn't free, but it did include all travel. It lasted about 2 hours (advertised as 90mins) and covered more stations than I could keep count of!  Although you could visit them by yourself, by going with an experienced guide - in our case the amazing Irene - you saw them in the most efficient and quickest route and we learned a lot about Russia and Russian history.  We took this tour between 2 walking tours, because it involved a least a little sitting down, but we were still quite tired by the end.  I don't know how the guides keep going for so long! Thank you Irene!;4;July 31, 2016
Awesome;Moscow is effectively connected by metro and train. Super easy to get around. The decor in each station tells a different story about  moscow history . From revolution to war time and education and etc.;5;July 31, 2016
It's easy to do a self tour!;We did our own thing one day and spent time doing as many of the iconic metro stations we could find! It's great fun and 50 roubles each gets you down to them all!;5;July 31, 2016
Fast,really fast;Really efficent way travel in moscow,and the price is low as well.some of the stations include nice art .;4;July 31, 2016
Easy acces around the huge city. Very cheap, no pets allowed.;Beautiful architecture. Nice statues inside. Quick, cheap and easy to use. A free metro map availavle for mobile phones, which can be operated without mobiledata.;4;July 31, 2016
Like museum;Some of the Moscow metro stations are the most beautiful metro station in the world. Ploshchad revolyutsii station is must watch metro station even if you are not using metro still you should visit there just to see the metro station.They have lots of sculpture of people involved in russian revolution. It's really amazing place. You ll feel you came to museum and you may also catch metro from there.Apart from that metro is very old, there is no air conditioners in metro it gets very hot inside metro. Metro doors are scary really harsh, like it's not just closing its slams :) very rude style.;5;July 31, 2016
Clean and fast;Polished stone walls, some stations are like historical monuments. They are more classy and cleaner than our bathroom! We never waited a train more than 1 minute. Typically it arrived same moment when you take step to platform. Crowded sure, but not too much. Very safe feeling.  Only challenge is to understand russian writings, but you learn fast. I had 3 days ticket for c. 5 euros. Just show the ticket in the automatic gate. With luggages no major problems either. Some automatic gates are larger than normal ones. Suites better with luggage.;5;July 31, 2016
Beautiful;This subway is the most beautiful I've seen so far. And I loved the fact that there was no signs of graffiti on the walls!"...............................................................";5;July 30, 2016
Brilliant transportation system;The metro is fabulous. Cheap and very easy to use, as soon as you memorize Russian words. The station are massive but very nice. As well as the city, the corridors and station are so clean. Train are old but perfectly operational, as well as the tram.;4;July 30, 2016
Nice architecture, toxic staff;Very complex but efficient metro network. The stations can be breathtaking. Moscow must be the only place in the world where riding the metro is a tourist attraction itself. Very very rude staff however,  who didn't want to sell us tickets because we couldn't speak Russian, eventually even angrily ignoring us. After this experience, we decided to use the ticket machines, which work fine once you figure them out.;3;July 29, 2016
Visiting Moscow;The under ground connection The Metro is one of the amazing things to visit and use. It connects many regions through underground trains.The stations are beautiful and looks like museums, they have a lot of interesting art in.;5;July 29, 2016
Subway or Art Museum???;Our tour guide surprised us by suggesting the visit of all downtown metro stations to demonstrate the fantastic art installations in one of the world's older metro systems. Several stations are particularly outstanding, such as the Bolshoi station or the Red Square one. The Metro is used very extensively, and one can observe passengers moving up and down the steep and long escalators reading anything in their hands, from i-phones to tablets, books, newsprint, their watches and much more, The movement on the platforms is fast but disciplined , and I was impressed that we were not hassled about blocking the movement while admiring the many glass windows  or bronze statues of war heroes as well as the plebs. Very efficient system (at least while we used it) at very reasonably rates, but beware: the stations are about 2 kms apart, keep those legs exercised.;5;July 29, 2016
A work of art!;The Moscow Metro was one of the USSR’s most ambitious architectural projects, many stations were planned as shelters in the event of nuclear war during The Cold War.Mosaics, Chandeliers, Bronze/ Marble statues, there's nothing you won't find here. A true grand work of art!;5;July 29, 2016
Very attractive artwork in the stations;The metro is packed and stuffy (like all metros), but the stations give it a huge lift over other cities.... Don't miss;4;July 29, 2016
Seeing is believing;There are several stations which have been beautifully decorated - our favourite being the Kiev station. Beautiful mosaics worthy of being in a museum!;5;July 28, 2016
Fantastic;This is so worth a trip, especially if you have ever ridden the subway in NYC. What a difference! I couldn't get over the pristine walls in the escalator hall - not an ad or speck of graffiti to be seen - and that was before I got downstairs and saw all the artwork and the crystal chandeliers. Consult a guide book as to the best stations on the brown line, and then just take a ride hopping on and off the train.;5;July 28, 2016
Very Amusing!  Nothing like it in the world!;I've been all over Asia, Europe and North Americas, but I've never seen a metro like this!  It's almost as if they made the entire underground metro into a museum!  Every stop is different and I took a tour with a private guide to take us to the most interesting places.  Each stop has different designs, architecture, art and statues.;5;July 28, 2016
Not like any other metro stations in the world - a definite must see;I've been to Moscow 6 times and every time have been totally amazed by the size and grandeur of some of the metro stations. I took my parents on my latest trip and took them on a tour of some of the best metro stations and they were equally amazed. It's Soviet architecture at it's best.Some to recommend are Novoslobodskaya, Mayakovsakya, Ploschad Revolyutsii and Kiyevskaya;5;July 28, 2016
Clean and beautiful subway system;Unique peace of art on most of the stations. Attention need to be on brown line and stations on it. Trains come and go on 30 sec and always is crowded..;5;July 28, 2016
A loooooong walk;The metro in Moscow is different than other metros, some stations are full of statues and engraved walls as if it is the entrance of a museum. It is a must see. But it is too crowded and you walk long walks to look around so be careful not to lose your group while walking with a group. It is also very hot in there, the ventilation is not very good.;5;July 28, 2016
Underground Museum;The metro is incredibly clean and the statues and architecture is impressive.  I was proud that I was able to navigate on my own!  Very safe as there is plenty of police / security present.  Many visible signs make it somewhat of easy to travel if you can't read the language.;5;July 27, 2016
Functionally and aesthetically brilliant;As an expat living in Moscow, I'm always happy to get on the metro to travel around the city. Featuring 200 stations and counting, it's a massive form of transportation, but super efficient. Compared to some metros back home in America, the Moscow Metropolitan makes them look atrocious in comparison. Tickets are super cheap (ex. one single trip costs 50 rubles, or about 80 cents), and you can literally go to all 200 stops with one ride. Worried about waiting a long time? The single longest time I've had to wait for a wagon was 5 minutes, and that was once in a period of two years. If you're waiting for one as well, take the time to enjoy the fantastic designs of the metros (in particular, Belorusskaya and Mayakovskaya are stunning), as Stalin wanted to leave his mark of sorts. All in all, taking the metro becomes the best way to travel around Russia's capital.;5;July 27, 2016
Best Metro in the world;Clean as a whistle, fast trains, works of art everywhere - wow.This was the best I have seen, and it gave me a real insight to the Russians. There were beautiful memorials to the war effort (the Patriotic war), with mothers stopping in front of them to explain to their children how important the people that they represent were to Russia's survival during WW II. Seeing how proud they were throughout the Metro stations with the many murals, mosaics and statues: it was eye-opening, and showed me just how strong their character is. A never thought that a Metro line could been emotionally moving, but it certainly was. Do not miss this!;5;July 27, 2016
Never saw metro like this before;The stations are just amazing! You can literally learn the history of Russia when riding metro. Each beautiful station is richly decorated with mosaics on historical topics. Great to see!;5;July 27, 2016
fast, convinien, cheep;very good. you can get to all the places you need.tickets sold on stations.don't buy at burglers.may be croudy at peek times2 minutas betwin trains;5;July 27, 2016
Clean, smooth and often beautiful;The Moscow metro is not that hard to navigate. You pay your 50r ticket money (either machines in every entrance or a cash window) and you can travel around anywhere on the network. Many of the stations in the central area are very beautiful, with ornate columns and ceilings, murals and statues. All the major railway terminus stations have great metro stations too. There is free wi-fi on the trains, many of which are air-conditioned. The most striking thing for anyone familiar with the London or Paris undergrounds is the total lack of advertising. You will not find out what is on at the cinema or in the museums in the Moscow metro. There is also (apparently) no vandalism or graffiti. You probably need to be able to read cyrillic to get from one place to another as there are no tourist signs but the announcements on the trains do tell you what the next stop will be.The overground traffic is appalling, currently made worse by road improvements everywhere in preparation for the 2018 world cup, so this is a great way to get around.;5;July 26, 2016
Superb underground well worth a visit;Took the metro for 3 stations it was a really great exprience the artwork etc was fantastic this was a well engineered feat for the 1930,s and was in very good condition and well maintained;5;July 26, 2016
Work of art and efficiency;This metro was intended by Stalin to wow the world, he didn't fail. It has no equal in the world. It's not only beautiful, it is also extremely efficient, trains never more than 2 minutes apart.;5;July 26, 2016
Most beautiful subway system in the whole world!;My absolute favourite subway system, with unique pieces of art on every station. There could be: Mosaic, sculptures, paintings and more. Everything reflects the uprising feeling of that great  time when it was constructed with both love, hope and genius of the soviet people. My favourite station is: Kievskaja! Would recommend to everyone!;5;July 26, 2016
The splendiferous metro in the world;Comparable to other world metro systems this one (besides transport function - approx. 8.2 million passengers per day, maximum 14 million) is one of the most famous and magnificent. First of all attention should be paid to inner ring stations (brown line) and what is inside (old metro). Most of them have truly palatial trim.;5;July 26, 2016
A must do!;Every visitor to Moscow must try the metro .The trains themselves are noisy and could do with some upgradation, but the metro network is the most efficient and fastest way to get to different parts of the city! Also the metro stations are beautiful - the marble, chandeliers , the murals , a lot of them look like palaces! And each station is done up differently! One couldn't get enough of their beauty!;5;July 26, 2016
More than a means of getting around;The Moscow metro is much more than a highly efficient and economical means of getting around a busy city. It is a cultural, architectural and artistic experience.  Good idea to get the hang of the alphabet before you go, or at least to recognise the important stations and then you are set. Multi journey tickets available from the kiosk.;5;July 26, 2016
just amazing;look at the web for the most interesting stations to visist. Pick 5 or 6 and you will have a 2 hours worthy visit;5;July 26, 2016
Worth seeing.;The metro here has an old world charm. All marble with statues and artwork. Take a ride it's worth it.;4;July 26, 2016
Efficient but not always user-friendly;The metro is a wonderful way to get around Moscow. It is super-efficient and inexpensive. It takes you just about all over the city and definitely beats dealing with the terrible traffic jams. It would help the tourist if there was more written in Latin rather than only Cyrillic. At some stations, we even had difficulty finding the name of the stop. Nevertheless, we navigated the entire city and when needed, we were helped by Muscovites who were more than willing to be if assistance. Besides getting around, it is definitely a worthwhile experience. Some of the stations are beautiful. The sheer depth and the long escalator ascents and descents are an experience unto themselves. Riding the metro is a must.;4;July 26, 2016
fast and cheap mode of transport;One trip cost only 50 Russian rubles (about 50 pence) andthere are  no zones, i.e. always the same price. Some stations, especially in the city centre, have got very beautiful interiors.;5;July 26, 2016
Every station is a work of art;I loved it! Its fast and every station is so different! We got 'lost' several times and it was worth it. Best stations are those near the downtown circle.;5;July 26, 2016
The most beautiful metro;Moscow metro is the most beautiful in the word! Yes, you will share my opinion after visit. You should visit at least following stations Novoslobodskaya, Belorusskaya,Kievskaya,Rizhskaya,Mayakovskaya, Ploshad revoluutcii,Ohitnyi ryad and all othe ring road stations. Also I recommend to visit Vorobyevy gory and to walk out. But for the comparison you should also go to any end stations to see the different styles. For example, you should visit Prospekt Vernadskogo and new station like Troparevo.;5;July 25, 2016
WOW!;I highly recommend to spend some time wondering around the different stations, they are amazing. The blue line was my favorite.;5;July 25, 2016
Amazing;This is seriously the most amazing metro system I've ever been on.  It's quiet, clean, inexpensive, beautiful and efficient.  People stand on the right and pass on the left on the escalators.  There is no graffiti.  It's amazing.You can ride, get off, take pictures and get back on with no problems -- the trains arrive that quickly.The system is expansive as well.  I'd love to have it closer to home.;5;July 25, 2016
Nice way to get around the city and get aglimpse on the Sovite era;Very effective means of transport. Very easy to navigate. Each station, especially in the city centre is different from the others. No visit to Moscow can be fuii without such experience.;5;July 25, 2016
Underground museum;Moscow metro was built more than 80 years ago. The stations which were opened in 1935 look simple but they are very attractive. The most interesting stations are situated on the circle line - Komsomol'skaya, Novoslobodskaya, Kievskaya. Do not miss Ploschad' Revolutsii with its beautiful monuments. You can find a lot of interesting in other stations also. Metro is the best way to cross the city but in morning and evening it is overcrowded. Moscow metro is supplied by free Wi-Fi.;4;July 25, 2016
Public palace of Soviet Union;Old Moscow metro stations are considered as public ownership of luxury - they were built like ancient palaces withi marble, statues and mosaic ceilings. definitely worth visiting central stations of moscow, built in 40-60x of last century.;5;July 25, 2016
Unbelievable;It is wort to save some time to make a tour of Moscow metro. We picked the best metro stations and went out for photo. Metro runs here every 3 minutes or so so you can be back on the line very quicly. It was like an underground musem - each of them! :-);5;July 25, 2016
Amazing surprise to go into the metro;We were so surprised at the beauty and art in the metro stops. The lighting in each one is unique along with the different themed art work. It was spotlessly clean. Any other in the world is pretty grimy. Make the metro stops part of your visit to Moscow.;5;July 24, 2016
Such variety;So many to see and so different. Some are inspiring and so interesting from an historical point of view. I would suggest you take a guided tour.;5;July 24, 2016
Very affective mode of transport;The Moscow metro is very effective and a spinet way to get around the city. There are many metro stations with spectacular art.Be ready to go up and down stairs most stations do not have electrical stairs.The metro train run often and always on time.;5;July 24, 2016
Amazing;Any trip to Moscow would not be complete without trying the metro.Very easy to buy tickets through self service machines 50 roubles per trip but you can buy multi trip tickets and share one ticket for everyone. Do make sure it registers at the barrier - like an Oyster Card - otherwise a loud alarm sounds and a barrier shoots across, almost knee capping you - whoops! The one time it happened to me ensured I checked every other trip! What no one ever tells you is how deep underground the system is, but absolutely stunning to look at. The metro system was described to me as "A Palace for the normal people" and it is certainly that.;5;July 24, 2016
Best Grasportaion way in Moscow;Accurate on time , cover the city very well with many linessome Stations is real museums , it force you to stop and watch the art most of trains has free wifi;4;July 24, 2016
Best Transportation way in Moscow;Some Stations is like museums , Art and historical .the metro cover the city in very good way , most trains has free wifi , and timing is accurate .;4;July 24, 2016
Absolutely Magnificent;People are stunned when I show them photos of the Moscow Metro. I never would have thought that such architectural beauty could be present in something so seemingly cold and heartless as a public subway system. Not only that, but the trains ran smoothly as well, much more so than any I have ridden in the US.;5;July 23, 2016
Gorgeous metro halls;Absolutely recommend it to everyone one. Besides breath-taking art works, it shows a major part of Russian's culture. Also suggest you take a good local tour guide that helps you better understanding of there.;4;July 23, 2016
Stations are works of art;The Moscow metro system is rapid, efficient but not the cleanest or quietest subway system in the world. Still, where else can you see colossal statues, stained glass or chandeliers in the stations?;4;July 23, 2016
Unbelievable - the artwork and the efficiency;Where I live our train system is rubbish.  We visited three different lines and there was only 1.5 to 2.5 minutes between trains!  No, really! In Melbourne if you miss a train you open War and Peace and expect to finish before the next train.  But all that aside, the stations are all works of art.  Really cool! Russian history painted (or mosaic) on the walls and ceiling.  Seriously, it is really impressive!Google the stations so you visit the better ones.;5;July 23, 2016
Architecture at its best;This something one should not miss in Moscow. Infact there are many such stations which has amazing architecture. The station is also called Kitay Gorad. Visit during off peak hours to get a uninterrupted view;5;July 23, 2016
WOW - you can get lost;What an incredibly large system! It is clean and well marked but you do have to know where you are going as it is complex. Trains are clean and efficient with waiting times less than 90 seconds between most trains. Impressive complex.;5;July 23, 2016
Amazing Metro !;I really enjoy walking when visiting a city. But for Moscow, I really recommend mixing walk and MTR. The metro is quite unique, each station is different and it's historically valuable. The most pleasant metro I have ever tried !;5;July 23, 2016
Metro Gallery;With more than 12 lines deep underground metro and stunning architecture. A Excellent basement gallery....;5;July 23, 2016
Really cool art!;Our guide took us round a few stations on the circle line, plenty of mosaics and historical depictions to be seen. Definitely worth a visit!;5;July 22, 2016
Just take a ride - to anywhere - and explore the Metro;It's like being in a moving museum!  We travelled around on the Metro to get from A2B but also to a couple of stations where there are the most fantastic sculptures, pictures and fitments.  It really is a tribute to Russia and Moscovites!;5;July 22, 2016
Just do it for less than a euro;This is something u have to do, just buy a metro ticket and visit several of the recommended ones, all of them are interconected.;5;July 22, 2016
Top sights themselves;Many of Moscow’s metro stations are top sights themselves.  They include high quality, intricate art and architecture.  It’s hard to believe that this level of art continues down a whole platform or throughout the station.  The trains are very frequent, so it doesn’t take long to visit stations.  I recommend Mayakovskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Ploshchad’ Revolyutsii stations.;5;July 21, 2016
Metro! Must see!!!!;I'm a New Yorker.  I love the subway, but the subway in Moscow was like going to a fabulous art museum.  Each station is unique, I could have spent hours down there!  Don't miss it!;5;July 21, 2016
Fascinating metro system and stations;As Moscow is a very big city, the metro is necessary to connect several parts of Moscow. The stations are beautiful and it makes you wondering, how much attention they had for details in only a metro station. The trains are clean and driving very regularly. Waiting times are a minimum. An advantage is the accessability for disabled people or with hugh luggage. The escalators are definitely not made for that. But I never before saw such long escalators. So really interesting place and you need to use the metro anyway when you want to reach a destination quickly in Moscow.;4;July 21, 2016
Beautiful and efficient;Where we're from there is no metro so it was our first ever experience with a metro system.  The system is easy to use, the stations are beautiful and the trains are clean and very efficient.;5;July 21, 2016
The true art of Moscow;Another must when you go to Moscow.  Visiting different Metro stations gives a true feel for Russian art.;5;July 20, 2016
Perfect !!!;I think the Moscow metro is one of the best  and most beautiful in world! Fast, cheap, and many stations to get anywhere in Moscow. Recommend;5;July 20, 2016
Effective Transport and Fantastic Stations;World class Metro. Preserved soviet atmosphere.Just get ready to polish you cyrilic reading abilities before you board the train!;5;July 20, 2016
amazing art;we went with a guide around 3 of Stalins metro stations, amazing art.  clean and efficient train service.;4;July 20, 2016
Diffrent to the London Tube;I wouldn't recommend a guided tour of the Metro, unless you like endless dissertations on a large number of frescos etc. But definitely worth a visit, I would just buy a day tickted and visit a few of the stops, it's quite a simple network, make sure that you visit KOMCOMOAbCKAa;4;July 20, 2016
The best Theme Based Stations;I was surprised  to see the metro stations of Moscow The are Theme Based and full of chandeliers ,Thematic paintings etc,I highly recommend every one to visit the Metro stations of Moscow;5;July 20, 2016
Subway;This is one of the largest subway systems we have been on. The system appears very efficient with trains arriving approximately every three minutes. It is relatively clean and you feel relatively safe using it.  Much of it is very deep in the ground so you find yourself taking very long escalators as well as lots of stairs. Each station has its own art forms and very elaborate finishes which we found very interesting. Unless you speak Russian it can be difficult to navigate the system at first. Trying to continuously convert Cyrillic Russian into English is not recommended. It's easier to navigate in the local language. We used a subway app which makes navigating a lot easier. ( Yandex ).;4;July 20, 2016
DIY moscow metro tour;It is beautiful , worth visiting and you can do it on your own very conveniently . Just tell your hotel conceirge to mark intersesting stations on a map (preferrably both english and russian ) and you outline your plan . You can also download metro app on your phone (yandex) . We visited in the afternoon on a working day , so metro was not even very crowded .Also local younger generation understand english and always ready to help if you find any difficulty;4;July 20, 2016
amazing!!!;Absolutely amazing.Each station is unique and most of them are piece of art.Although it is very old, it is very clean and very deep.It has 12 lines and that makes it a little bit complicated to move around.Be aware that the same station has different names in each line.So a station may have up to three different names depending on the number of lines that pass through.;5;July 20, 2016
Incredible!;The Moscow metro/subway system is the overall best that I have been on.  It is clean, extremely efficient, and many of the stations are like art museums.  The only negative is that they can be very hard to navigate if you don't know your Cyrillic alphabet so download an offline metro app or get a good map.  The advertised great wifi rarely worked for me.;5;July 19, 2016
Underground city;Being built at the beginning of Stalin's era in 1932-1935, Moscow's metro with its magnificent architecture is a monument to Soviet ambition. There are around 200 stations and each station is different. Moscow's subway is the best way to get around the city during peak hours when the traffic is gridlocked.;5;July 19, 2016
Watch for pickpockets while you take photos of the beautiful ceilings;The metro is quick, efficient, and filled with pickpockets.  I took photos of them while my comrades took photos of the beautiful murals and artwork in some of the stations.  If you're visiting, sign up for a tour - you'll learn much about the stations you'll miss if you just look.;4;July 19, 2016
Very beautiful;The metro in Moscow is amazingly beautiful and efficient. The statues in the metro are amazing to look at and the superstitions about them are also interesting.;5;July 19, 2016
Fast and convenient way of travel;As in any huge city underground/Moscow metro is fast and convenient way of travel. A bit noisy as any other underground, Money saving relatively like any other underground. Navigation system might be a bit complicated for non-Russian speakers, however, you cans search internet for interactive English language metro maps, all stops are announced in Russian. From my point of view - this is ok as the metro is in Russia. Good reason to expand your linguistic background with couple of Russian words and phrases. Metro conveniently connects all train stations and airports express trains. The architecture and interior of metro stations were unusual to me for the size and finish. You have to remember Moscow metro was built to impress its visitors. And it did. You might have a chance to travel on theme coach, which is another fun as well.;5;July 19, 2016
Best Metro in the world?;The metro is beautiful, immaculate, extensive, inexpensive, and available almost immediately.Several stations are works of art and there are tours you can Google.  You can buy one pass for the family and if you get 60 rides it is about 65 cents per ride.  We saw zero graffiti or litter and no panhandling.  We've traveled a lot and never seen anything as useful,well run, and nice looking.The network is huge and you can get everywhere.   Download the Yandex Metro app!It works offline and will map your travel from any location to another and show all the transfers.  It also helps as you can get both the English and Russian names for the stations.  The Russian names are the only ones shown in the actual stations.Trains come about every minute during normal hours and every three minutes late at night.  We felt very safe, but be aware of pickpockets if things get very crowded, just like in any big city.;5;July 18, 2016
Art, people, real life;Go there and experience  traveling in the best transportation system among lots of artistic design and elements;5;July 18, 2016
Wow. An underground fantasy;The Moscow metro is a reasonably efficient way to get around town even if frustrating to those who don't read Cyrillic. Trust me you will want to know where you are going! But the metro is gorgeous with massive amounts of artwork of varying types. It is worth taking the tour.;4;July 17, 2016
so easy, so chep, so efficient;We've spent 7 days in Moscow. Very easy we became familiar with the metro lines, most of them, usualy having a fequancy of every 2 minutes.In addition to the glorious aspect of many stations, the metro is clean and below not expensive. Buy tickets of 20 trips and get 30% discount, this is what we did. Outstanding;5;July 17, 2016
If  you go to Moscow - visit the Metro;There is huge amount of Beautiful state of the Art stations in Moscow metro. Maps and descriptions are everywhere so you don't have to know language to travel there. Take a round line (brown) and all the stations inside to see the beauty of the place. If you' worry, there are guided tours as well (didn't take one, but saw people in several languages);5;July 17, 2016
Impressive and stations are beautiful.;After using the metro transit systems in London, St. Petersburg, and many US cities (NYT, BART, MARTA, etc.), I must say that I'm impressed.  First, the stations are beautiful and worthly of notice as each is different and has its own story.  There are different periods and styles of art, from Soviet brutalism to neoclassical greek.  And, it is just really easy to use and get around on even without knowing the language.  GET THE YANDEX METRO APP to make it easy.;5;July 17, 2016
great metro system;the cleanest fastest metro system that can take you anywhere. the only bad bad thing is that inside of the actualy train is a bit loud and gets u sick when ure tired.;5;July 17, 2016
Amazing subway system;I have never been anywhere that offered tours of the metro. At first, I was puzzled. However, I soon saw unique features with art, sculptures, cleanliness, lack of graffiti, and a train system that was deep underground. Navigating the metro on my own would have been difficult as all the signs are in Cyrillic. But, I took some lessons before I arrived in Moscow and I felt less lost. I need to revisit Moscow and stay with a local person who also speaks English.;4;July 16, 2016
Marvelous Metro;When Russian guide books discuss the Metro in Moscow, one wonders, "How impressive could it really be? It's a subway, after all." Compared to most major US & even other European city subways, Moscow's Metro is truly exceptional, based on cleanliness alone. The beautiful architecture in most stations is not to be missed.;5;July 16, 2016
Went to 7 stops and each unique;The cleanliness of the metro was amazing. And different stations depict different aspects of Russian life through art. And note the unique chandeliers at each station. Amazing and very easy to get around.;5;July 16, 2016
Deepest Metro;An underground railway system in the Soviet Union. As of 2016, the Moscow Metro has 200 stations and its route length is 333.3 km (207.1 mi)–making it the busiest metro system outside of Asia and the 5th longest in the world. The system is mostly underground, with the deepest section 74 metres (243 ft) underground at the Park Pobedy station, one of the world's deepest.;5;July 16, 2016
A great and easy way to get around Moscow;It's the only way to travel around Moscow, but you need to know where you are going. If you know Russian or have a Russian guide it is a lot easier as apart from the new stations signs are only in Russian.  That being said, you can get to almost anywhere within 20 to 30 minutes.  Some of the stations are beautiful, even built using marble and the trains are frequent, fast and always clean.;5;July 15, 2016
Superlative;Everything about the exalted nature of the Moscow metro is true, true, true! What a sense of art and presence. Every portion of the metro puts the Grand central showpiece to shame;5;July 14, 2016
Beautiful and efficient but no English;It's a great system but you better know your Russian. I've never seen such a large city with zero accommodation for tourists;3;July 14, 2016
The Most Efficient Metro I ever Rode;1. This attraction is not free, but at ruble .50 = 50 kopek for riding it, as long and far as you wish, really is not expensive.2. Most of the stations are just functional and stark, but some have some interesting decoration from the time of Stalin as well.3. This means of transportation is very efficient with trains running every 40 minutes during rush hours.4. A crash course in reading Russian helps when you're in the metro, because Cyrillic script is the only one used.5. If you're not sure about which train to take or in which direction, plenty of people will try to help and the less they speak your language, the more they will talk, in Russian. Simply helpful people.6. Use the metro extensively. It works. You'll enjoy its efficiency more than the decorations that just a few station display. 7. There is no recommended length of visit. Use it according to your needs.;4;July 14, 2016
Best Metro ever;The Metro of Moscow is not only a public transport, this is a real piece of art, you should make a tour there!;5;July 14, 2016
Complicate but efficiency;Dont have station name in english. You should prepare before hand or download yandex.metro application. Moreover, you can ask people nearby for help in case you get lost;4;July 14, 2016
Get a whole-day-ticket;The price of a whole day ticket, 200 rubles is equal to 4 single-ticket rides. If you do buy single tickets and don't use them the same day they expire. Not sure when, but when I returned to Moscow 5 days later my ticket expired.The stations and ticket-offices get very busy and sometimes the workers don't speak English so be ready for that as well. We didn't realize there was a whole-day ticket and ended up wasting time and money on our first day.;4;July 14, 2016
Impressive;Visited 5 stations with a guide who talked through their history. It's actually not hard to get around yourself but if you want the stories then a guide is needed.;4;July 14, 2016
Surprising shock.;We had planned to take the first metro in the morning to the Station to catch our St.Petersberg train. We ended up almost missing it, because the train never came! And there were absolutely no English announcements. We had to rush back up, lugging our suitcases up staircases (no elevators or escalators) and hunt desperately for a taxi.;2;July 14, 2016
Most beautiful metro stations you can see;Moscow has a very extensive metro network and the stations are just mindblowing. We visited 5 stations and the artwork/sculptures just kept getting better and better.;5;July 14, 2016
Great transportation and highly decorated;Went to several different stops as part of a night tour of Moscow. Easy to navigate and fascinating to see the themed decorations. One is full of stained glass windows, another has statues, another murals of the history.;4;July 13, 2016
Better than London Underground !;Very very frequent service although no station signs translated (but then none in London are !) but that's half the funArchitecture is truly amazing at each station;4;July 13, 2016
A must for visitor;Moscow Metro is a must for any person coming to the city whether it is a Russian or foreigner. Even if don't need to use it for riding from one place in the city to another you should definitely go down and see it. The greatest attractions are the metro stations built in the 1930-1950s, though quite a few "younger" ones are also quite interesting. If you don't happen to have a local guide to tell you all about them, the best thing is to take the circular/ring line and get off on every stop to admire the stations. Then you could cross the ring by taking one of the older lines (red, green and blue) and get off the train on Kropotkinskaya (red line), Novokuznetskaya and Mayakovskaya (green line) or Ploshchad Revolutsii (blue line). There is a map at every station and in every metro carriage to help you navigate.;4;July 13, 2016
the sights to see;The Moscow metro system is pretty easy to sort out if you've spent any time in major US cities.  After living in DC and NYC for a while, I found it pretty easy to maneuver around the Moscow system.  You just have to pay attention to how many stops you need to go, how many you've gone, etc.  Just pay attention because few people speak English other than younger students (in my experience).;4;July 13, 2016
Impressive art work worth seeing!;The Moscow metro was build in 50s and 60s in a big art style and there is nothing to compare in the whole world. The stations were nicknamed as the "poor people palaces" in order to illustrate the workers the achievements and dominance of the Soviets in the development of the  their own country and over the world. Whether and to what extent such symbols have had any impact on the poor people on their way to their works and home at theat time it is a question, however some of the stations are just impressive and definatelly worth seeing. Visit at least Mayakovskaya, Komsomolskaya and other central stations!;4;July 13, 2016
Confusing. Careful if you try it.;Cheap and effective way of transportation but need a knowledge of the Russian language or at least the letter. The sound is very different from spelling. If you do not mind the adventure. It is worth a try.;3;July 13, 2016
Language problem;The Russians are very proud of their metro system , but the problem is the Language for tourist !!!!!!! They don't write directions in English !!! And it's very hard to find some one who will help you most of people they just ignore you or don't look at you and go or they replay do you speak Russian ? After language problems it's easy to use and they charge 50 rubles for one trip;3;July 12, 2016
Metro Grandeur;In some of its better stations, the Metro is grand and awe-inspiring. Moscow Metro is the best way to explore the city. It's cheap, convenient, beautiful! How this city has infused art and culture into many of its subway stations is simply impressive. The fact that the stations look different from each other not only provides variety of style but also serves as a pleasing reminder to commuters of their locations at any given time. I just wish that all of the stations have been rebuilt, upgraded, and refurbished. It would have been grand all the way. Soon I hope.;4;July 12, 2016
Excellent network;The best metro network, cheap, frequently. Is worth to bay metro card, even cheaper. No one speaks english, as neither in Moscow, but they are helpful. Nice and particular metro stations.  By the connections you have walk a lot, and it worth planning where do you want coming up.;5;July 12, 2016
beautiful stations;you can go anywhere in the city by metro. It is very convinient and stations are incredibly beautiful ! you can buy single or multiple tkts: 1 trip RUB 50, 2 trips RUB 100 and 20 trips RUB ? don't remember the price.. check if the correct amount was uploaded in the tkt. I don't know if it was just a mistake or done intentionally... I once bought 2 trips RUB 100, but the lady uploaded only 1 trip and I only noticed when I was going to use the second trip and there was no balance in the tkt.;5;July 11, 2016
A must;Every stop is different. Art for the  people similar  like the rich. The best way to go from one place to the other although  very complicated to find your way in the beginning.;4;July 11, 2016
It's everything they say and more;Very impressive metro, in some cases very deep in the earth (300 meters?), and of course it runs on time.  It's clean, there are police everywhere--way more than we see in the US, and when you see the police, they are in clusters of 5 or so. Mostly young men and women, with flak vests and all business.  Also in the metro are bronze sculptures and artwork, I once saw a sculpture in the NY subway, made of chewing gum. Moscow is different.;4;July 11, 2016
Must-see when in Moscow;To say the architecture and history is phenomenal in the Moscow metros is an understatement. Words do this no justice. If you're in Moscow make sure you take time to take it in. I would recommend a tour guide if you are not familiar with Russian as it is hard to navigate through there if you don't know the language.;5;July 11, 2016
Unique;Because of the lack of directions in english, locals will be happy to help you, and you can learn a few words. :);5;July 11, 2016
What an experience !!;I loved exploring the Underground Metro in Moscow! I found it quite easy to understand and follow the map ! We did our own Moscow Metro Underground Tour  and had quite a blast!! In case you dont want to go for the paid tour, you can quite easily do one on your own. all you need is a map and some common sense. Ask your hotel staff or a local for the best stations to see. The Metro stations are quite crowded, i have traveled till as late as 11pm. We were told not keep any valuables in our pockets, you may not realise in the crowd if your pocket gets picked.Hold your bag close and be aware of your surroundings.The metro stations are indeed beautiful,with intricate mosaic work, gold and filigree work, huge massive ceilings and chandeliers, statues in bronze and beautiful paintings! Make sure you visit the Prospect Revolution metro Stn ( located at Red Square) and rub your hand on the mouth of the statue of the dog and make a wish! its their tradition !!;4;July 11, 2016
Spellbound;The granduosity of the aptly named peoples palaces and the frequency of trains keeps it far ahead of any metro service around Europe and North America.Trust me I have done a lot of them;5;July 11, 2016
Arts museum in the depths of the earth :);Really enjoying and love the Moscow Metro. Just like art museum in the depth of the earth (depth more than 80 mtr). The interior, the painting, and of course the chandelier is awesome.Must visit tourist attraction in Moscow!!;5;July 11, 2016
Worth a trip;It's worth experiencing the Moscow metro, it has chandeliers all the way through the tunnels, truly beautiful for a metro! Not too easy to navigate though! When you hope to return to your stop its like a tardis of different exits which could see you coming back out into the other side of the city depending on which stairs you take coming out! We got lost coming back but it was fun! We used it to go from red square which is where we was staying, to get to the cosmonaut museum and back again. Just ask people "red square??" And they will point you in the right direction! The escalator coming down is very long and you will be surprised at just how deep it goes! Defo try it just to say you have experienced it!;5;July 10, 2016
Arguably the world's most beautiful metro system;The Moscow Metro is easily the world’s most beautiful metro system. It was built on orders of Stalin, who envisioned these metro stations as “Palaces for the People”. Sure enough, the architects took the word “Palace” very seriously – stepping into a station is like stepping into a museum rich in architecture, complete with all the elaborate designs, tasteful mosaics and grand chandeliers. I also understand that none of the designs are ever repeated, making each metro station unique and remarkable in its own right.I visited the Moscow Metro on the weekend, where most of the locals would’ve left the city for their summer homes. So it would probably be a good time to visit the metro then; that way you can take your time to immerse yourselves in the architecture without fear of being mowed over by the crowds. For my tour of the Moscow Metro, I chose to visit the stations on the Arbatsko-Pokrovskaya Line, starting with Park Pobedy, then Kievskaya, before skipping two stations to reach Ploschad Revolutsii, after which I backtracked to Arbatskaya and then finally Smolenskaya so as to exit onto Arbat Street. This route has a good mix of stations with traditional and modern designs; for instance, Park Pobedy was opened in 2003 while Kievskaya or Arbatskaya stations were completed in 1953, so it provides visitors with a snapshot of the changing styles/designs of the stations from different times. Smolenskaya and Park Pobedy are also significant because they are the deepest stations in the entire Moscow Metro; the former was the deepest before the completion of the latter in 2003. Ploschad Revolutsii is also culturally significant because of the bronze statue of the soldier and his dog, where locals believe that rubbing the dog’s nose brings them good luck. Just putting my route here to share =) though I think that regardless of which station you end up, you’ll find they each have their own unique character and history and they are all really quite beautiful in their own special way so you won’t be disappointed!;5;July 10, 2016
Most awesome metro stations in the world!;A no brainer activity in the snowy months in Mosco. Just ride around the central metro stations admiring the individuality and beauty of each station!;5;July 10, 2016
Go on, risk it!;My wife and I have used the underground systems in many cities throughout the world including Tokyo, and we figured that if we could navigate that we could navigate anything.The Moscow metro is a challenge. Directions in the stations are displayed in two languages but they are both different forms of Russian. I did hear of one couple who ventured on to the system years ago and wrote down and memorised the name on the wall of the station where they entered. They were surprised to see this repeated at a number of stations on the journey and then found to their dismay that they has actually written down the Russian equivalent of the word "Underground".There seem to be nine separate lines with an additional, circular, line joining them all together. On the linear lines the idea is, as in London, to seek out the name of the station at the end of the line to make sure you are going in the right direction. But what about the circular line? Well, according to our guide, announcements made in the stations are in a male voice for clockwise travel and in a female voice for anti-clockwise journeys - or was it the other way round? If all else fails just make sure you have a map of the system, stab your finger on it where you want to go and look for a friendly face. It worked for us and we reached our destination, Gorky Park.I do advise you to try it. Some of the stations are magnificent beyond belief so it is an experience worth having. It is, to Westerners at any rate, dirt cheap. You can buy single tickets which have to be validated at the machine on entry to the system or a multiple use ticket which will deduct one journey from the total every time you use it. There is another machine which will tell you how many journeys you have left.Do give it a go. A number of people on our cruise ship tried it (the nearest station was a 15 minute walk away) and all returned safely to base. If you do the same regard it an another of life's little achievements.;4;July 10, 2016
Underground Museum;Definitely on of the best attractions for tourists. Most of the central stations are like museums. with a lot of sculptures. The only bad thing is that the trains are very old and make a lot of noise.;4;July 10, 2016
Incredible Metro stations;The Moscow Metro is arguably one of the better Metro systems we have used, but many of the stations are definitely unique and the best looking. They are not just stations, but more like art galleries. The architecture is absolutely breathtaking and wonderful. There is a lot of history in these stations. They were obviously designed and built during the Soviet era and carried a lot of propaganda value, but be that as it may, one cannot help but admire the sheer beauty of these monuments. They resemble huge lounge rooms with beautiful chandeliers hanging off the ceilings, amazing statues of Russian political, military and other figures etc. The metro system was first built in the 1930s and now is well over 300 km long, with more than 200 stations. It serves about ten million passengers a day, a really mind-boggling figure! Moscow is a very busy city traffic-wise and the best way to get anywhere would be the metro. If you try to drive expect extremely long delays of hours, not just minutes. Most of the stations are huge, underground and multi-storied. Travelling only costs about one dollar or one euro, perhaps a little less. We bought a ticket and travelled (using the one ticket) to quite a few stations, getting off at each one in succession, just to look around the station; then back on the train and off to the next station (we did not get out of the station; we only got off the train). Absolutely delightful and huge fun! It is so easy travelling on the metro that anyone could do it. You do not have to speak Russian, just buy a ticket, have a Moscow map and a Metro map and off you go. You cannot get lost, and if you do, then that is double the fun. We did it and we absolutely loved every minute. By the way, you do not need a "guide" to show you around. Just do it yourself. It's much more fun.;5;July 9, 2016
Grand metro.;The metro is huge and there are lots of lines there. You have to have metro map to use it and the best thng about it that while using the metro it is easy to reach historical places.;5;July 9, 2016
Impressive;Each metro stations are unique in design , so clean, so efficient and can seem to handle the volume in people traffic. Did not disappoint.;5;July 9, 2016
Sparkling Metro;I did a private tour of the most interesting and attractive of the metro stations two weeks ago and found it a very enjoyable tour. She also showed me two of the recent modern ones that been designed under the Putin Government. The entry to the metro is by buying a ticket cost $1 AUD. It would be very difficult to do it alone as there are numerous line changes. The ticket machine does have English instructions.;5;July 8, 2016
Best transit;It's the best way for transit in moscow. You can literly get anywhere to anywhere with metro. It's a bit big but don't scare. Look for signs specialy on grounds you can find way to line numbers.Some stations have good designs. Don't miss watching them.;5;July 7, 2016
Art gallery;Look at art gallery in each station,and enjoy your travel,central st.s are are more pretty.it needs sharp eyes,equipped cameras and plenty of time.;4;July 7, 2016
UNFORGETTABLE EXPERIENCE;Be sure to step alertly on the fast moving escalators moving so fast and ever downward hundreds of feet.  Many stations are museum-like in appearance.  The trains are old but arrive quickly.  Mastering the Russian names at station stops require careful advance planning.  In addition to being one of the world's premiere transportation systems, the Moscow Metro is also very inexpensive. Highly recommended as an attraction all by itself.;5;July 7, 2016
Cheap and quite easy way to get around Moscow;Coming from "the country side" in Sweden, the subway have always been such a hassle, expensive and hard way to get around when going to Stockholm. Not in Moscow though. Not at all. First you have the price, 50RUB for a ticket to anywhere. That is crazy cheap. Then you have the system. It's really not too bad when you understand how easy it is. I quickly learnt some of the Cyrillic letters, making it 100% easier figuring out where to go though. :p I can see that it is not as easy otherwise. But if you do get lost, you can always stare at the architecture. Some stations have wonderful statues along the long halls.Basically everything is in Russian. Make sure you know how many stations you have to go before hopping off if you don't know how to read the Cyrillic texts. They do say what next station is while in the carts, but it can be kinda hard to hear. Some wagons have a little map with LEDs that show where you are, what next station is coming up, and what lies ahead. This map also show the names in English, but not all wagons have this.;4;July 7, 2016
Beautiful Surroundings for Busy Metro;We were able to do the Metro while on a tour of Moscow off of our cruise ship. This is a crazy busy metro, but it is very clean and efficient and beautiful with it's sculptures and artwork. If you have time, walk around between stops and read the inscriptions and get the information on what you are looking at. With the busy busy Moscow streets, the Metro was the way to go!;4;July 6, 2016
The Metro has beautiful stations;One thing that actually works well in Moscow is the metro. They take the pride and joy of  riding it specially in the winter.  The metro stations are really nice.;5;July 6, 2016
Ten stars;I really cannot convey to you how awesome the metro is. It is a must-experience in Moscow. A single ride is 50 RUR (about 75 cents) and the price decreases as you buy more rides at once. Trains come every couple of minutes, and a lot of the stations are absolute works of art. They look like museums. Also, the signs are very helpful (warning: you need a little Cyrillic). The ubiquitous super-long escalators are kind of cook, IMO.;5;July 6, 2016
art masterpieces;Moscow metro stations are really art masterpieces. A pleasure to walk through, each different from the other but with a fascinating retro´ style. Very elegant.;5;July 6, 2016
Fast and Cheap . . . Like Going Back in Time;A Russian friend of ours gave us a quick tour of some of the nicest Moscow metro stations and it was well work it.  Everything is vintage 1930's and it like going back in time.  Enjoy!;5;July 5, 2016
Metro is easy to use, if;You know Russian ! A little...Stations names are written in Russian alphabet. Workers are helpful and know few easy words in English.Trains run every 3 minutes. Stations are beautiful and clean, and very organized with designated entry and exits.;5;July 5, 2016
Cleanest Metro around;The Metro is magnficient, exceptionally beautiful murals and various architecture in the subway stations. They are meticulously clean. The only problem is there is no english available, you need to know exactly where you are heading. The tickets are cheap RUB0.50 per ride, not zone dependent. There is wifi on the trains.;5;July 5, 2016
Underground splendour;Knocked out by the artistry and architecture on display in the Moscow Mtero.  Absolutely stunning!  Excellent advice given elsewhere to experience the underground with a guide as they can fill you in on so many details.  Out visit to Miscow would have been the poorer if we had missed it.;5;July 5, 2016
Efficient and interesting;50 roubles buys you a ticket to anywhere on the metro system (free if you're local). The trains run every 1.5 minutes, navigation is very easy as it is all written in Cyrillic and English so providing you know where you want to go it's straight forward. The stations themselves are a revelation! Highly recommend.;5;July 5, 2016
Amazing!;Spread across 2000 stations,Moscow's underground rail system is a tribute to Soviet engineering and new Russian efficiency. With trains running every 90 seconds and the roads permanently clogged with traffic, the metro is the city's most practical form of transport. The earliest stations are architectural masterpieces, with Ploshchad Revolutsii, Kievskaya and Komsomolskaya really standing out. Visitors are advised to learn a little of the Cyrillic alphabet to help decipher the station names.;5;July 4, 2016
Best seen with the services of a guide;Each station stop is represented by a different art style or focus. We saw several and each was unique with bronze, ceramic, or plaster ornamentation and some murals. Every station stop was in immaculate condition. Russians know where to deposit their trash and it's not underfoot! Also no dust or grime anywhere except maybe on the tracks!;5;July 3, 2016
Incredible!!;The metro (some stations) looks like a museum!! It's unbelievable! There is also a lot of history behind these metro stations, really impressive! It's something not to be missed even you are staying for one-two day in Moscow. Just be careful as the stations' names are only in Russian....It would be great if somehow they will think of adding the names in English as well, considering the large number of tourists....;5;July 3, 2016
Hugely interesting, if noisy. (Well, it's a metro system...);I don't want to review this - I'd rather you just went and experienced it for yourself. The Metro system was built in the Soviet era, to celebrate the workers. Stunning.;5;July 3, 2016
Don't be scared;Just go down any station and buy a ticket. Just ride to different stations to see how beautiful they all are. Its very busy and very rushed, but if you can do the tube, you can do the metro.Stunning architecture, beautiful murals and statues. On a rainy day, spend the afternoon underground!;5;July 3, 2016
Worth your effort;Do a bit of research to see which station's architecture interests you.  Buying tickets is easy even with language barrier.  Walk up to window, hold up fingers.  Keep in mind the name of the end station of the line you need.  Count the stops. Easy.  Elektrozavodskaya Station has cool sickle and hammer light fixtures (see photo). Ploshchad Revolyutsii has bronze statues-ppl rub the guard dog for good luck (see photo).  Many have marble. Some have carvings and mosaics.  They are like underground museums-each one different and unique.  Hop off, do a quick look around, and the next train will be by in about 2 minutes.;5;July 3, 2016
Attention NYC;New York could learn a lot from Moscow on how to keep a subway clean and something you want to visit.  Every station has a different theme and each is more beautiful than the last.  The train run on time like clock work. The Trains themselves are spotless.  Thanks Moscow!;5;July 2, 2016
No Metro like this anywhere!!;The art and chandeliers and state of the art spaces in the metro stations make it like no other anywhere in the world.;5;July 2, 2016
odd one;Ive never seen such metro it was beautiful Kind of a museum but not as briliant as in photo it is kind off triller & you feel lost your way the system is too different  all notice board are in russia s hard to find the root;4;July 2, 2016
Very beautiful stations and easy way travel around;We were 7 days in Mockow on September 2013 and it was easiest way to travel around, even everything was written Cyrillic alphabets.;5;July 2, 2016
its a Train Station;Elegant, well decorated.  Something to see.  The trains are on time.  They come every two minutes.  The station is amazing clean with great antiques.;4;July 1, 2016
Easy to use and beautiful.;Every station is unique and beautiful. It's quick and easy to use, definitely the best way to get around Moscow. A few things I will mention to help tourists using the Metro system. A Majority of the sign are in Russian so I would suggest downloading an app called 'Yandex.Metro' to help you navigate your way through the Metro. Also if your staying for a week or over just go to the ticket desk (Касса) and buy yourself a ticket for the week. It will cost you 800 Rubals which is around $12 US dollars this is for one person and once you have used it to pass a gate you cant use it for 20 minutes. A security feature to stop you from letting your friends use it. I hope this helps and you enjoy your time in Moscow!;5;July 1, 2016
More than just another Metro;Metro stations in Moscow are unlike any other city I have ever visited..made with the intention to awe its visitors instead of just providing comfortable commuting...you cannot afford to miss these. Just be careful with the elevators though, quite steep and very very deep, seems they will take you to the center of the earth...scary;4;July 1, 2016
Palaces brought down to the Common Man;Each station is a palace - marble statures / chandeliers / paintings/  a tribute to the struggle of the people!! Must see!;5;July 1, 2016
yes dont miss it and dont be scared of it.;I was a little apprehensive about using this as I had no knowledge of it and do not speak Russian, but have no fear it is very easy to use.It really is beautiful and stunning and is a pity to miss ! Just see the six main stations. They all have different styles and are all worth seeing.;5;July 1, 2016
Down Under a Marvel;Done in 1930's this is an excellent place to appreciate the engineering marvel and place where the social political status of that era can be appreciated.Murals and paintings are marvelous;4;July 1, 2016
Amazing Station;Very efficient Metro System and it has several amazing station with a lot of history behind them, worth the visit to at least 10 of those stations.;4;June 30, 2016
Slavish interiors, but without any connection to their purpose.;It is worth to pay a visit at some of the central  Metro stations, to sea their interiors, but you must keep a constant eye on your belongings. .;4;June 30, 2016
like a museum;the metro trains are not important but the metro stations are superb. nowhere in the world metro stations are so poetic.;5;June 30, 2016
A free museum;Not a metro as we know it. It is more like a museum. The stations are very spacious, there were several tour groups  in the hall looking at the art and it did not interfere with the commuters. There are different types of architecture and art. Much of it is celebrating the soviet era but is no less impressive.;4;June 30, 2016
Russian glory;Russian glory and luxury, even in the metro... Aside from the practical side of the Moscow metro which is very convenient, quick, easy, and has good WIFI... This is the every day reminder of the past glory this city once was able to produce in every aspect of life.;5;June 30, 2016
Beautiful and getting better;Two years ago it was a mess, with lots of kiosks and vending, almost like an underground market. Now I am surprised - new air conditioned carriages, fast Wi-Fi, clean and with clear navigation. This is not to mention outstanding architecture of central stations. Well done and recommended!;4;June 30, 2016
Best stations;Every metro station in Moscow is unique. You have very modern as well as the great soviet style stations. When you visit as a tourist you should ride the metro in the middle of the day, since it is packed during rush hours. Must see stations are: Маяковская, Новослободская, Комсомольская, Киевская and of course the best Площадь Революции. It's great when it's raining outside. As long as you don't go out on the street, you need only one ticket and could stay underground the whole day. For a tour around the mentioned stations you can calculate 1,5 hours if you take you time for photos.;5;June 30, 2016
Moscow Metro;If you plan on visiting the Moscow Metro just to take a gander at some of its beauty make sure you do your research ahead of time because some of them are just regular metro stations.  I did see some beautiful ones but it was mostly by coincidence because I was using the metro to get around the city.  There are some worth seeing but like I said do some research ahead of time ... So you'll know which ones are really worth seeing.  The Moscow Metro as a means to get around is very very good...Its super fast compared to any metro I've ever been on (London, Paris), the wait time between trains is just 1-3 minutes.  A one entrance pass is 50 rubles = less than a dollar probably $0.80.  I think you can go to the Ticket booth and get a discounted ticket if you plan to use it more often... But I'm not 100% sure on that one cause I didn't personally check it. I just used the kiosk each time.  And most importantly it was very easy to learn how to use it.;5;June 29, 2016
A very special Place to visit;The Moscow Metro is one of a kind! Most of the Stations aren't very special and look like most Metro Stations around the world. But then there are some Stations that will let your jaw drop. Very artistic and beautiful and showing the real heart of russian architecture. Everybody should take the Metro at least once not to get around Moscow but rather to just drive around from one Station to the next to see what it looks like.;4;June 29, 2016
Old and well deserved things to visit;I took a complete ride on Line 5 (brown one) and stop to every station for a quick visit.This is a ring line and it took me to visit about an hour and something. Also I visited "Teatralnaya" (Bolshoi Theater station) and "Ploschad Revolycii" (this have lots of statuary) All the stations are interesting and different. The designers used themes from the soviet period like peasant works, industrial works, sports achievements. An interesting station is "Sportivnaya" . They have here an exhibition of their main achievements of Olympics and different Championships with trophy, names, photos and sports gear. This station is build on a bridge over the Moscow River.;4;June 29, 2016
Not recommended for first timers;You can use the Metro if you can speak the language while there is no signs in any other language but Russian. Even for experienced Travelers it might be a little bit of Hustle. My recommendation is use your feet or get a cab.;2;June 28, 2016
Best Subway in the world;Trains are on time, it is clean, it is affordable and you never have to wait.  Better than London as the trains are very frequent.;5;June 28, 2016
Visit Only with a Russian;My wife is Russian and we often visit Moscow, in June we were there on business but had our youngest daughter with us and used the Metro many times everyday.  With out reading Russian it is very difficult to navigate the Metro and would not recommend anyone try to use it without being with a knowledgable Metro user.  It is beautiful in many place but is quite a maze with many, many levels and lines that take you far afield from your starting place.  Also very, very busy until late at night and it does not run after certain hours so you can get stranded if visiting new places late in the evening.;5;June 28, 2016
Komsomolskaya & Taganskaya stations;Most stations are just functional, some are worth a second look, but Komsomolskaya and Taganskaya stations are gorgeous.;4;June 28, 2016
Enjoy these palace like spectacles;Make time to see a couple and you will not be disappointed. Get an English/Russian metro map online as this will help but we found it on easy to navigate our way once we started looking for the next station on the line. We started at Arbatskaya and bought a RUB50 ticket to the furthest point. We simply jumped off at the platforms marvelled at the palatial decor which was intricate and unique at every stop. Then got back on the next train when we were ready to depart. The route we chose took around 2 hours: Kiyevskaya, Ploshchad Revolyutsil, Mayakovskaya, Belorusskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Prospekt Mira, Komsomolskaya, Taganskaya, Novokuznetskaya, Teatralanya.Enjoy. Thanks for the vote if you found this helpful.;5;June 28, 2016
Amazing place!;Until you don´t visit Moscow Metro you can´t imagin this work of art. Each of the Metro stations has its own identity. I recommend to visit them!Please, it is worth to visit them!!. Do not miss the opportunity to meet them!;5;June 28, 2016
Quick visit;Very interesting visit. It is like a visit to a museum. Huge net, awesome frequence. A pride to Russia.;5;June 28, 2016
Absolutely stunning;50p for a trip - absolutely stunning, no 2 stations the same - you have to ride the metro and jump on and off to review;5;June 28, 2016
Nice ride;They have one station - "Маяковская"/ "Mayakovskaya" which is very very beautiful. Of course there are few more like this - but his one is my favourite.;5;June 28, 2016
Worth the ticket money just to look at the decor.;Well, this puts the London Underground to shame. Far easier to navigate, far more attractive, far cleaner.;5;June 28, 2016
Fascinating;We understand the Moscow Metro wasn't built until the 1930's but the decor at the stations we used was fascinating with murals, statues and works of art. Wonderful.;4;June 28, 2016
An attraction of it's own;When in Moscow it is recommended to purchase a whole day ticket to the metro and just explore the central stations. Each station is a small museum and worth stopping by;5;June 28, 2016
Must vizit, hard to miss;First and foremost next to the only reliable means of transportation in megapolis. Some stations are architectural marvels, some are quintessentially mauvais gout;4;June 28, 2016
Amazing;Very beautiful stations , well organized and very easy to use , every station is different than the others . the stations are like a museum .;5;June 27, 2016
Great People Watching;The subway is easy to navigate and has some great architecture. Also amazing variety of people that makes for an interesting ride.;4;June 27, 2016
Architectural transport;The fastest and the most reliable (if you want to arrive at time, without traffic jams) way to travel in Moscow. The architecture of Moscow metro reflects the soviet esthetics and some other styles. All the stations are different, beautiful and unique. Moscow is huge. Thanks to its metro you can reach its opposite ends the fastest way possible.In the metro train it is awaited that younger people offer their sits to old/older people.;5;June 27, 2016
Beautiful!;All central stations are a work of art, amazing! Clean, crowded, fast. Like it so much. Very impressive.;5;June 27, 2016
Amazing decoration!;Best place to learn socialist realisms in painting and mosaics. Underground palaces but avoid rush hours! Week-end morning is the best time to visit. Especially recommended are Ploschad' Revolutsii, Park Kul'tury, Kievskaya, and Arbatskaya. Some modern stations are also quiet fancy (e.g. Slavyansky bul'var)   Navigation in English is limited. Few lines have English announcements of stations at the moment. Better to be accompanied by a Russian-speaking friend (as nearly everywhere in Moscow, indeed).;5;June 27, 2016
Work of art;It's simply amazing, the metro  stations in Moscow are a work of art, the cheapest way to understand Russian history and  art. You just need to buy a 50 rubble ticket and see all the stations but there are the best five must see.Don't save your money on a guide, take one as the language and complicated metro network can be very confusing.;4;June 27, 2016
Great and cheap way to travel;For 50rb or 50 pence in English money you can travel anywhere on the metro. It can be confusing but give it a go and just admire the marble!;4;June 27, 2016
Metro Po Rusky;The Moscow metro is a most do.You need to get around the complex scheme of station connections but once you got it... easy to go around...;4;June 27, 2016
Mind the gap;Gap of over a foot between the platforms and some of the trains!  Amazing architectural achievement.  Part transit system, part bomb shelter, part underground city, part temple to Soviet era artistic sensibilities.  It is very impressive.;4;June 26, 2016
My favorite;I could spend days just riding the metro and getting off each station to see the unbelievable  beauty of the stations stained glass fantastic  light detail clean as a whistle.. do your self a favor just rude get lost and see amazing sites underground;5;June 26, 2016
need to see;some subway stations are also a piece of art while some others need a little care as they are a little old and seem to not have been taking care of for some time others are so clean you could eat from the floor virtually;4;June 26, 2016
Riviera Travel Tour;Fantastic tour but use a guide as the routes are very confusing. A must see in Moscow as the grandeur of the stations is amazing.;5;June 26, 2016
An Old But Well Run Subway System;Several times we traveled on Moscow's subway system. It is fast, efficient, inexpensive, safe and gets you just about anywhere in Moscow. Unlike the US, though, every train I was on was old. Clean and well running, but very old. There are the usual language problems and I wouldn't want to get lost in it but it runs well and goes everywhere.Also, the escalators down to them are some of the longest I've ever been on. Rumor has it that they double as bomb shelters.;4;June 25, 2016
Simply brilliant;Best metro I have seen till date. Every metro station has its own interiors. Very convenient to roam around the Moscow city.;5;June 25, 2016
Amazing architecture;Easy to use. Maps seem modelled on London underground (or vice versa) meaning navigating is easy. Even for non-russian speakers.;5;June 25, 2016
Most beautiful metro ever!;Get the Metro booklet from the information guy in one the stations. Beautiful stations are mentioned in it with the map of the metro lines. All the stations that worth visiting are located in the circle-shaped central line of the metro, so it's very easy to visit them all and no need to change the line. Takes about 2 to 3 hours. A must do when in Moscow!;5;June 25, 2016
Could use more management;This is one of the worst metros that I know. The drivers don't even give you 5 seconds to get in or out of the metro. Lucky if you can even get luggage in or out of the actual metro car.;3;June 24, 2016
So clean!;The Moscow metro is so clean and efficient. We went the wrong way our first time in, but the trains come every 3 minutes, so it was easy to get back on track!;5;June 24, 2016
Piece of art;Almost every train station is like an art gallery. The architecture is awesome, also the paintings. Some trains are old but this is the spirit of Moscow Metro. Very busy in rush hours, It's an experience, so try it. Very important to know where you want to go, before talking the metro, if you don't speak Russian.;5;June 23, 2016
Amazing;The train arrived and leave very quickly so be ready to get on and off fast .Beautiful , visit a few as they are all different.;5;June 23, 2016
Efficient, interesting, budget prices;Moscow metro is really well organized, the main tourist lines connect all major sights, and it is very cheap. You can combine different lines, and as long as you don't walk through the exit gates, you can use the same ticket. So, read the metro map carefully and find the easiest way to reach the point B from point A. Trains would come within a minute, there is no crowd except maybe in rush hours, safety is high, and sometimes you feel like you are in the middle of some movie shooting (because of the Soviet style of the corridors, sculptures, paintings). All in all, great experience, highly recommended.;5;June 23, 2016
impressive and efficient;very time I take the metro in Moscow I am amazed by the magnificient metro stations, the cleaniness and the efficiency. Avoid to take a car or taxi, the metro is much faster if your destination is reachable.;5;June 23, 2016
Traveling thru Moscow;The Metro is the only way I recommend traveling around Moscow.  Not only is it highly efficient, but Stalin spared no expense or talent when building some of the most beautiful stations I have ever visited.;5;June 23, 2016
Great Value But Cunfusing Signage;We have used the Metro for the last three days and found it great for getting around the city. Two tips, learn the Russian Alphabet as we had to marry up our maps in Roman letters with station signage in Russian, and take care in the vast underground interchanges.At 50 roubles a trip it is great value and the trains run at frequent intervals late into the night.;5;June 23, 2016
Underground museums;Take the brown circular line and get off at each stop to let your jaw drop and marvel at the communist aesthetics.;5;June 23, 2016
The peoples palace;I visited recently Moscows metro and I was amazed of how beautiful it is, clearly this was the best legacy that Stalin could built for Russians, I went to the most beautiful stations all on the circular line and near the centre. This is a must during your visit in Moscow;5;June 22, 2016
Brilliant way to travel in Moscow;The Moscow Metro is amazing. Luckily we were with one of our sons who lived in Moscow for 2 years so was used to using the Metro and is fluent in Russian. The signs are in Russian and very difficult to work out the names of the stations. If you know which colour line you need it is easier to follow. After a few days learning the system we were able to do short journeys on our own! You can buy a prepaid card for 20 journeys for 650 roubles which works out at about 33p per journey which is amazingly cheap. The trains run about every 3 minutes. The stations are works of art. Some of the escalators are so long you can't see the end. The traffic is terrible in Moscow and without the Metro the traffic jams would be even worse. I would recommend travelling on the Metro all the time.;5;June 22, 2016
Great transport option & beautiful design;The metro is a great option for getting around. The traffic on the roads is horrendous while on the metro, you can cross from one side of Moscow to the other in 20 minutes. All the routes intersect each other and with trains literally running every 2 minutes on every line, it makes it very easy to get to all of the tourist sites, irrespective of your starting position.It's also worth checking out the more beautiful stations. It's very hard to believe they took the time to include mosaics, sculptures & art that tells a historic or cultural story.;5;June 22, 2016
Be prepared!;The moscow metro may be the most intimidating and confusing system at first however once you've used it a couple of times it becomes far easier and less scary. Make sure you know how many stops it is till your stop and it becomes far easier as all the signs are in Russian. Really simple to use and is great price for the distances you can travel. 50 rubles for anywhere. The card machines translate into english and you can buy singular passes for just one journey. Be prepared if you travel on them during the peak morning and afternoon periods as it so busy and can be extremely scary however just keep to yourself and it will be all good. Also you cannot predict how steep and underground the escalators take you as it is especially if you're from the UK as we do not have anything like that in Britain. #1 tip from me: be calm and go about your business, attempt to learn the russian alphabet as you can just then figure out the signs at least phonetically! Definitely useful and seeing the architecture especially on the brown and red lines is amazing!;4;June 22, 2016
Don't miss ,the Best metro system in the world .;Each station is museum full of art and history ,very safe ,but you need a tour guide ,no English any place but I would not miss it for the world ,so efficient and clean and secure it simply amazing;5;June 22, 2016
.....a real challenge;Most of the time when you hear about the Moscow Metro, you hear about how beautiful the train stations are....and yes....some are so beautiful with chandeliers and statues etc. and so clean! But no one mentions how challenging it can be to navigate this system. Especially as their are no signs in English. As a country girl from  Australia, it was very daunting. However, I spent nearly 3 months in Moscow and became quite proficient.;4;June 22, 2016
Never judge by the fancy appearances;People told me that it is the best metro in Europe. so now i know that Moscow metro is not what you were expecting, it's well decorated and fancy and poshy in few stations but that's basically it.  no more than that.Escalators and elevators are missing in most stations (not friendly for handicapped people).  No air conditioning in most cars and stations (it becomes  a real problem in Summer time when temperatures reach high 80ies). But  the frequency is high, good dispersion of stations all over the city and prices are lower than average Metros in Europe.;3;June 22, 2016
So easy to get around (as long as you make up your own names for the stations.;The Metro is certainly the best way to get cow. It's cheap, you can buy a series of tickets that allow you to make 10, 20 or more trips (all for the same price) of any distance. It's easier to follow this metro network than London's tube system.;5;June 21, 2016
Impressive Design;We stopped at several Metro stations just to look at the designs.  They are simply beautiful; however, they are not as clean as those in St. Petersburg nor as memorable.;4;June 21, 2016
Forget the rest Metros you know!;All stations i have visited from the oldest to the newest are amazing! You simply cannot decide whether you are in a metro or in a royal hall in a palace. Luxury, marble, wood, chandeliers, everything is clean, structured, simply amazing. The only problem can be the cyrilic alphabet, but even if you are lost, make sure you take a look at the station!!;5;June 21, 2016
Each Metro Station is an Amazing piece of History;Its the kind of feeling of wow that you get when inside the Metro stations . They are a part of history and culture of Moscow. Each Metro Station has a unique theme !! Although the trains are old but well maintained and very well connected . The ceilings and the walls have mosaic paintings , then there are statues and one very famous one of the dog and the soldier.;5;June 21, 2016
Research the Best Stations;Some stations are functional/basic and some are extraordinarily beautiful. Research them and plan where to stop. Enjoy and photo the long escalator rides. Note how extremely clean they are.  If you think you will use taxis in Moscow you are crazy. Extremely bad traffic...as bad as you've read or worse.  Long rides for short distances. At best, 1% of taxi drivers are honest and the other 99% will cheat you. Use the Metro. Easier to use than you'd think.  Also, download the Yandex Metro app for your smartphone. It will plan you trip and works completely off-line.  Thanks Yandex.;5;June 20, 2016
Very beautiful stations!;I took a guided tour of the Moscow Metro. There was so much history in these stations. Definitely worth visiting to get a deeper understanding of the lives of the russians living during the soviet union time.;4;June 20, 2016
Moscow Metro;WOWZA. Unbelievable the opulence underground and the accompanying history. I did my tour with free Moscow tour company. A must do;5;June 20, 2016
Best thing to do in Moscow.;Just get on the metro, and visit some of the amazing stations. Who needs art galleries? The trains run every two or three minutes, most guide books point out the best stations to visit.   We got out at all the most well known ones and any others that looked interesting. Do get out at Park Pobedy to see the wonderful war memorial museum and travel on the longest metro escalator in the world.   You will find the escalators run much faster than the ones in London, and beware the train doors which shut with quite a bang.  Avoid rush hours - the subways are always busy but you will just get in everyone's way if you try and take photos in the rush hour.;5;June 20, 2016
beautiful metro and a lot of history behind it;Took a metro tour to gain better appreciation of moscow's beautiful metro.   this allowed me to learn that in those days, these metros were actually 'libraries, theatre, etc..';5;June 20, 2016
Public Transit w/ History;The metro system has some of the most beautiful stations I've seen throughout the world! Be sure to brush up on your Cyrillic before you go, unless you get a guide, because almost all of the signs are in Russian.;5;June 19, 2016
Moscow Metro;The Moscow Metro is definitely something to experience with a guide unless you are fluent in Russian.;5;June 19, 2016
Unique;Each station has its own charm!!I guess I won't be the first advise that you get in this sense!! But in Moscow rains a lot, so always have as a plan b the underground!!Moscow's underground is one of the only gorgeous underground experiences of my life!! Wish you all the same;4;June 19, 2016
Do not miss;We traveled with friends who chose not to join us on the metro. Their loss. Most of the stops are beautiful with chandeliers, or cool period art. If all metros were designed like this.... It's also a good opportunity to experience everyday life in Russia. One stop has statues of dogs. It's rumored if you touch them you will have good luck. You will see how smooth the statues are from everyone touching them. If you are into photography you will get some cool shots. Some say it's one of the most beautiful metros in the world. St. Petersburg has one of the deepest metros in the world but it's not as cultured. Best advice is to go on weekends not as busy. Also, no trash cans down there. I didn't see any trash anywhere, super clean. If you do not read Cyrillic bring someone with you. Or do as I did and count the stops, lol. You can easily familiarize yourself with the language ahead of time. Don't be nervous people will help if they speak English. Be adventurous you won't regret it!;5;June 18, 2016
spectacular;The Russian people are very proud of their Metro and rightly so, at times it felt although we were in a Museum/Art Gallery rather than on the platform of an underground railway station. A "must" to see;5;June 18, 2016
must see!!;never seen a metro station so beautiful. you go to different stations and all are different. all have a different style of art and style of construction. mesmerizing. beautiful lightings and 3 levels.;4;June 18, 2016
Excellent way to get around and enjoy the scenery;We bought a 20 trip pass for the two of us.  You tap and one person enters and the person with the pass then taps to go in. Make sure you look around while in the metro, they are extremely beautiful.  It is helpful if you learn a little Russian to read the signs.A helpful tip is that when you are travelling into the center the voice over the speaker is male but if you are travelling away from the center it is female.  This will tell you what direction you are heading.The trains seem to come almost every minute so it is very convenient.;5;June 18, 2016
2 in 1: a must as an attraction and an excellent way of transportation;The Moscow Metro is simply a must. The architecture is both impressive in itself, but also contains so much cultural history.;4;June 18, 2016
Not simply a mean of transportation;The metro in Moscow are incredible! Some of them are like small museums. Even if you don't ride the metro it is worthwhile buying a ticket for 50 Rub and entering the stations to admire the architecture and art.;5;June 18, 2016
Museums within metro rail stations;Visited about ten metro stations. Some are very special in terms of design and architecture. A must visit. There are approximately 9 million rides per day on the metro and a maximum of 90 seconds between trains (so don't stress if you miss your train). Some of the metro stations have three levels of tracks. Once you enter the Metro with a ticket that is the only checking point.;5;June 18, 2016
Underground marvel;A must to see when in Moscow.  Spectacular architecture.  It's  just like visiting a museum with statues and marvellous detailed ceiling with huge chandeliers and beautiful detailed mosaics and stained glass windows.  Millions of commuters rushing back and forth, organised chaos.  Trains every 1 to 2 minutes.  An experience not to be missed.;5;June 17, 2016
Museum!;Go check out the metro they said. And they were more than right!!!  It's safe, also at night and amazingly beautiful! Check out the pictures, they tell pretty much everything.;5;June 17, 2016
Underground Moscow;The subways of Moscow and St. Petersburg are amazing. Stalin has always been a bad name in our household, but he sure did build nice metros!;5;June 17, 2016
Buy one metro ticket and map your stations;Great for a rainy day. Buy one ticket check for the most beautiful ones and go see them. There are 5-7 stations that are worth seen.it should take you approx 1.5 hours max. Enjoy!;5;June 17, 2016
Ask people for their favourite stations, no English here;This metro is the most beautiful i have ever been. I had to ask to the recepcionist at my hostel for her favourite stations, she wrote some for me in my map of the metro. I don't remember the name, but they were so pretty. There are some other stations with less paitings or decorations, but still worth it. Try to red the name of the stations and pay attention, because nobody speak English here. I was quite interested in the Radial (the circle at the metro), because in one direction there is a female voice and in the right direction, there is a male voice. Take half a day to see the stations, maybe in the afternoon. The wagons have internet as well. I repeat: don't forget your map if you don't know Russian (I got lost two hours trying to find the right direction).;5;June 16, 2016
Russian subway;It is definitely one of the fastest ways to get from one point to another in Moscow. You probably can never be lost cause every station has its own unique decoration. They absolutely look like a part of a museum. A pice of history is everywhere.;4;June 16, 2016
No Words to Explain  WOW;I think that the Moscow Metros are a living Museum and its Art at work and its a place where you will just travel back in time the minute you enter the metro. Every Metro has a different design and a different theme. The trains and the people make this place an absolute wonder. The metro was built in stages starting from the 9020s' and yet everything works seamlessly. The War may have been the real reason they had built the Metro but I can see the Industrial revolution that had happened instead. In all its an amazing place to be in without a doubt. If you do not speak Russian you would find it a bit difficult. The Ticket vending machines have English in them, but then all the signs are in Russian. I suggest that you can down load the metro app on your mobile and the minute you get in side the metro WiFI is free. All the trains also have WiFi free and its absolutely fast just like their trains.;5;June 16, 2016
Best metro in the world! (not hyperbolic)!;While reviewing 'Moscow Metro' as a whole is ludicrous (it really should be broken down per station), the sum of all parts is a living breathing museum that millions take everyday. Take the time to explore each one!;5;June 16, 2016
Like an Underground Museum;The Metro in Moscow is a real art find for an entry fee of 35 Rubles ( about 50 cents US). Many stations have dedicated themes with many bronze statues of workers, soldiers, mosaics, artwork, stained glass, chandeliers and more. A real treat to ride the metro and visit it's many decorated stations. Don't miss out on this opportunity if you visit Moscow - a must see.;5;June 15, 2016
Amazing Art;There is no other metro system that has such beautiful art in the 165 stations it encompasses.  We decided to go at night when it is much more manageable to enjoy the art work.  You will be amazed at the sculptures and mosaic's.  It is very easy to jump off and on the metro to view the art but start with the green line and map your route out so you can see all the museum worthy art.;5;June 15, 2016
Must see - with conditions;The Moscow Metro is undoubtedly one of the wonders of the modern world. It is certainly worth a tour as a destination of its own and will leave the visitor speechless. Having said that, one must be very aware of what is to be faced in visiting and using the Moscow metro. The metro is a gargantuan urban transportation system that gets many millions of customers to every corner of the city cheaply and efficiently. But it is there to serve mainly Muscovites and other Russian citizens. A foreigner intending to use it needs to make two take to steps in preparation - a. learn Russian or at the very least learn how to decipher the Cyrillic alphabet. There is next to no English or other language signage throughout the system. Even in Russian, with color coding of the myriad lines and stations, navigation is complicated and mistakes may be easily made. Although Muscovites are very helpful towards foreigners in most cases, few speak foreign languages. This is especially true of the metro staff. Here and there one may find information boots with helpful English speaking staff, but they are few and far between. Announcements on the trains are exclusively in Russian, barring a small number of lines that have some English announcements b. Get in shape! Walking distances are often very long (to put it mildly) and many staircases must be traversed from one place to another. c. Be careful! The stations are very deep underground and are served by vertiginous escalators. rivers of people rush from place to place and there is very little consideration for confused slowpokes. d. If you are handicapped in any way, forget the metro. It is not at all accessible to the handicapped, the wheelchair bound or the infirm. Signs in the cars (in Russian) ask passengers to give up seats to the handicapped, but this does not happen, because no handicapped person can reach the cars.When you do finally get to the station and cars, you will find Russians to be 'old-school' polite. Men will give up seats to women, the young will offer their seat to older persons, etc. If you ask for directions or assistance, they will do their best, but the instructions can be hard to follow and sometimes contradictory (again mostly in Russian).Having said all that, if you are able bodied and adventurous, I highly recommend visiting and using the metro system rather than being stuck in above ground transportation in Moscow's snarled traffic. Finally, the system is cheap and multi-journey/multi-day magnetic tickets are available from machines in the stations (in English) or from the ticket windows (kassa) where Russian is usually the only language spoken.;5;June 15, 2016
What could I add???;Nothing: Moscow metro central stations ARE OPEN AIR MUSEUMS... but you must "simply" find them... No Cyrillic- no party: please avoid self-made itinerary even if your travel guide says move from the circular to the green line!!;5;June 14, 2016
Underground Museum;the Moscow Metro is more like a work of art than a transportation system, the 165 stations are built of wood, marble,cooper and bronze, filled with mosaics, chandeliers and sculptures.Really enjoyed the experience, sometimes can be a bit crowded.;4;June 13, 2016
Lively place to be;The Moscow Metro gives you a good idea about daily life in Moscow - the masses, the rush hours and the different lifestyles and cultures you'll see there.;4;June 13, 2016
The Magnificent Moscow Metro;The Metro system is unbelievable.  Six million riders are served daily with trains running every 15-30 seconds.  It is spotlessly clean and incredibly efficient.  And its artistic stations depict historical aspects of Russia.  Each station is more beautiful than the next.  Do not hesitate to tour the Metro.  There is much to see and learn.  It also gets you all over Moscow, easily and inexpensively.;5;June 12, 2016
Underground museums and palaces;The Moscow Metro system is surely the most beautiful metro system in the world. When saying that, I mean the stations, not the trains. Apart from that, it's clean, efficient and fast.Many of them, specially those from Soviet era are museum and palace like. They're different in style and decoration. So, when riding, don't look at your map or mobile, look at the stations you're passing by.;5;June 12, 2016
WOW;An amazing contrast to other countries subways! Vast stations decorated with wonderful statues, mosaics, painting, chandeliers. Trains every minute or so. Pretty easy to get around with a map and a guide book (Lonely Planet in our case) suggesting the best stations to visit. Great photos of Soviet emblems.;5;June 12, 2016
Like a museum.;Some of the stations i've passed by , are like museums. The architecture and lamps are amazing. I mean stations downtown. I cannot say the same for others.;5;June 12, 2016
Each station its own character and history;The metro stations were the highlight of my trip! It was such pleasure to look at each station's architecture and design that we hopped on and hopped off the metro to take pictures. BEAUTIFUL!;5;June 12, 2016
Public museum and public transit;A tour consisting of several of the key metro stations provides a great look at classic architectural styles, including a variety of statues, mosaics, paintings, sculpture and even stained glass.  All while traveling around on subway cars that feel as if they date from the original construction up to modern times.  Don't visit during rush hour, however, but mid-day can be very pleasant.We had a guide, but anyone familiar with subway systems using multiple connected lines (such as NYC) would not have much difficulty there.;5;June 11, 2016
Amazing beautiful Subway System;The metro in Moscow is easy and fast. I strongly encourage learning the alphabet. There is very little English in Moscow and fewer people speak it. If you want to see the original and most beautiful stations ride the brown line. All the trains have Wifi so if you need to look something up just hop on a. It's 50 rubles per entry into the station. As long as you stay under there is no extra cost. When you exit the station make sure you get out at the color you want. Each line at the same station has an exit and it will bring you to street level at a very different location. It was totally worth the time visiting and once you are familiar with it it makes getting around Moscow a breeze. Muscovites are generally quiet. So don't carry on loud conversations while on the train. You will stick out as a tourist.;5;June 11, 2016
Underground sights;A very enjoyable afternoon travelling round the various stations, they are all individual, some celebrating people, some celebrating battles won and sporting achievements;5;June 11, 2016
Excellent system but helps a lot to read cyrillic alphabet;The Moscow metro makes getting around relatively easy and is super cheap.  If you make a mistake, it is easy to correct.  Beware that the signs are in Russian and not all stations are labeled with station names.;5;June 11, 2016
The best in the world.;The Moscow Metro is one of the best metro networks in the world. Make sure to visit as many stations as you can since all are unique and have a wonderful design. Furthermore, the metro is cheap and the best way to get around Moscow!;5;June 11, 2016
You should really visit the Moscow Metro stations!;Very impressive! Especially near Kremlin the blue line. Where all Russians much the statues for good luck!;4;June 10, 2016
Beautiful!!;Our tour guide took us through most of the stations that were done back in the 30's.  Very impressive.;5;June 10, 2016
Great!;Clean and efficient! Used the subway almost every day. Absolutely recommend. Very cheap and takes you pretty much everywhere in Moscow.;5;June 10, 2016
Very nice and well organized;Some stations are really beautiful. You can hardly take your eyes off of paintings on the wall or statues. The transport is very well organized. It's fast and convenient. It is also the cheapest way of transport and all parts of the city are very well connected.;5;June 10, 2016
Excellent!;Best tour ever! Will want to see more with family next time. My wife and kid will love this tour too!;5;June 10, 2016
Art museum;Just fantastic. Very convinient. I started to find my way in two days. And almost every station's like an art museum. Loved it very much;5;June 10, 2016
Must see!;One of the must see tours of Moscow.We really enjoyed the sites and our kids got a kick out of riding the metro. We even rode it all the way to the market for souvenir shopping!;5;June 9, 2016
Stunning and surprising;Stunning clean and beautiful. Some stations are surprisingly ornate in their presentation, others huge and decadent in the absolute. From mosaics, to frescos, to sculpture, to huge stainglass windows each has a unique feel.;4;June 9, 2016
Swift efficient and cheap;Once you figure out the lines and stations, you won't want to take any other mode of conveyance!! If you're not a Russian/familiar with Russian, download an English version of the metro map;5;June 9, 2016
Impressive;Make sure you sign up for a metro tour of Moscow this will allow you to cover the most beautiful  stations as well as getting their history - If you don't know Russian or your way around Moscow by metro I think it will be a bit of a hassle but definitely a must;5;June 9, 2016
The only way to get around Moscow;This is by far the best way to get around Moscow. Buy a weekly ticket if you're here for any length of time.It's clean and safe, and trains seem to run every 5 minutes or so.;5;June 9, 2016
Prettiest Metro stations in the world;Never seen anything like Moscow metro stations. They're just amazing and it's worth it just doing a tour to see some of the famous ones.;5;June 9, 2016
Beautiful and Fast!;Moscow metro (subway) is one of the fastest and most beautiful rapid transit systems in the world. Almost all stations within the circle line (brown line) are kind of a masterpiece, each with its own and unique design. Newer stations built after the Soviet era feature more simple design but still have their own character. Single ride costs less than 1 US dollar (50 Rubles), and you are unlimited by time and distance you travel. Also there is multiple-ride card available which can be refilled as required (like Metrocard in New-York). Free wi-fi is available, but be ready to watch tons of ads during web-surfing. Be careful at station entrances and exits as the heavy swing doors might slam on your face if the person in front of you doesn't hold it.;4;June 9, 2016
Beautiful Old system;You don't have the ride the Russian subway to appreciate it -- just go down and take a look. It's a throwback to a different age when public amenities were created in the grand style. If you want to actually travel around Moscow, you'll find it inexpensive but crowded. Also, no English.;4;June 8, 2016
Interesting architecture, very clean and cheap!;I would recommend using Google maps to check which station you need to get on/off at.  That makes it a bit easier when you're in the station and all the names are in Cyrillic! It's very cheap - only 50 rubles (50p)!;5;June 8, 2016
Every station is a mini museum!;The Russian Metro is to be envied, clean, efficient trains - on time and you can go everywhere for 50 roubles a ride. Add in the beautiful, beautiful stations. We loved the one at Revolutionary Square the most with the traditional statues everywhere that you rub for luck - it's cute to watch the commuters dashing for trains via the dog's noses and soldiers boots!;5;June 8, 2016
must visit places when you are in Moscow;In our last 2 days, we've moscow metro station short trip. The brown line metro station has its own beauty, all of them. Has unique and detail architecture. I wonder how they built the station long time ago.;4;June 8, 2016
Efficient travel;If only everything in life was as reliable as the Moscow railway.  Easy access,  affordable and on time.  The best way to get around.  You should get up for elderly people. Plenty of security to feel safe. Just exercise common sense.  Do it.;4;June 7, 2016
Just to visit a few historic stations;I've used taxi rather than Metro.Just visited a few stations that was build during Soviet Era.Very crowded during the peak hours.;3;June 7, 2016
Do the Metro if the weather is wet.;A fascinating experience showing the opulence of the past soviet period construction. The marble is amazing as well as the painting and lights at different stations..... be prepared... it is VERY noisy.;5;June 7, 2016
Easy way to get around;Although I personally believe St. Peter-metro is easier for non-russian speakers, it is still convenient enough to get around the city. From the heart of Moscow city till the very outskirts in maybe an hour, Perfect!;4;June 6, 2016
Tour took us for 1 stop ...;My wife and I took a tour and they showed us the metro.  Beautiful, clean and efficient operations.  Pretty electorate system.  The stop we enter had the longest escalator that I have ever ridden on.  Don't forget to rub the dog's nose for good luck.  Try its - it's fun.;5;June 6, 2016
A proletarian palace that moves 10 million people a day;Stalin built the Metro System to provide the citizens of Moscow with a enjoyable experience while they went about their daily life.;4;June 6, 2016
Efficient and beautiful!;Cool in the summer, warm in the winter (constant +19 C all year round), this remarkably efficient public transportation looks like an underground palace.  Open from 5:30 am till 1 am daily, the train arrive and depart with an interval 1-3 minutes. Current  flat entrance fee of 32 roubles (50 cents!)  allows for an unlimited mileage (until you exit).   Free WiFI available  while riding the train!;5;June 6, 2016
astonishly superb service with charm!;we used moscow metro extensively during our recent trip to moscow.this was an amazing experience, specially with unique decor of each major metro station. enjoyed a lot.;5;June 6, 2016
Easy to negotiate;The metro is pretty straightforward to negotiate and is a cheap, convenient and fairly fast way to get about the city. Buy tickets at the self service machines, English is an option. Easy. Marvel at the scale and grandeur of the stations.;5;June 6, 2016
lovely place to be in;Lovely place to be in. So ancient yet so good, up to time, on schedule, affordable! HAd heard of it by many but finally rode in on my Moscow trip.;5;June 5, 2016
make sure you rub the dog;Fun morning spent on the metro.  Lots of interesting stops and artwork to see.  The stop at Red Square has lots of statues, make sure you rub the dog's nose for good luck, everyone does it.  Learn the Russian alphabet, it makes life much easier.;5;June 5, 2016
Amazing sites from stop to stop;If you can avoid the rush hour  and want something very cheap  to do , then ride the tube. each station is like an art gallery in its own rights.It doesnt take too many trips to  work out where you are going just mid the rather large gaps between the train and platform;5;June 5, 2016
Underground palaces;The USSR art design is very impressive. The marrable stone, the statues, the paintings - you can think that you are in some museum. You have visit at list these stations:KievskayaPloschad RevoluziiKomsomolskayaMayakovskayaBelorusskayaWe did it by 1 hour.;5;June 4, 2016
Astounding !!!;The Moscow Metro is a  Museum underground ....So beautiful and not what you could ever imagine....filled with art, crystal, huge chandeliers ,mosaics, marble and the most elaborate decorations....Museum quality..... Amazing.... But what is even more amazing to me is that the Soviet Leaders during the Cold War were more concerned with spending millions for the Metro than  feeding the starving people of the Soviet Union!!Another sad commentary of the harsh and cruel times of this country's history..Makes you think!!!Do not miss this!! Take a guide unless you can read Cyrillic!!;5;June 4, 2016
Majestic;Majestic isn't often a term one would use for a Metro system , but with marble columns , stained glass , frescoes , works of art & soviet realist sculptures it really is something special . My favourite station is the Mayakovskaya , an Art Deco hall with steel columns & mosaics on the ceiling is something special.;5;June 4, 2016
More of an Art Museum than Subway;As a frequent rider on the NYC subway system I was simply blown away by the beauty of the Moscow Subway System.  Aside from the beautiful design it was so clean, no rats or trash to be found (sorry NY).  A tip is to know where you are going and what trains to take or transfer to.  English signs are rare and most passengers do not speak English, but don't let this stop you, a must see if you ride American subways.  Avoid rush hour, same in any language.;5;June 4, 2016
Old metro but runnig like a clock;The metro of Moscow is in general old construction. The halls/station despite their age are astonishing, they are beautifull and very clean. As for the wagons are old but classic and making a lot of noise , forget the new kinds of wagons in metros of other countries. The prices are about 50 roubles meaning 0,67€.;4;June 4, 2016
Confusing Metro;I was in Russia during early May 2016 and one of the cities visited was Moscow.  Traffic in Moscow is a nightmare and slow going anywhere during the day and up to 8 pm at night.  For that reason, most Moscovites rely on the Metro which goes all over the city.  There are several different lines that go in all parts of Moscow and you can transfer from one line to another without additional cost.      The cost of the Metro is very reasonable, 50 rubles for each ride, less if you buy in quantity.  The cost does not depend upon how far you ride the Metro so you can ride all over the city for 50 rubles if you do not go out of the Metro.    The Metro stations are very clean and some are simply beautiful with murals, statutes, and interesting designs.  They are also very efficient and prompt.  There is a Metro train going in each direction on each line about every 3 minutes.  Many of the trains look (and probably are) old even though they are kept up.  The trains are also very, very noisy and sometimes it is hard to hear what the person next to you is saying.We primarily rode the green line from the end of the line to the city center by the Red Square.    Even though we could not speak or read Russian, getting on the metro was relatively easy.  We went up to the cashier and held up the number of fingers to indicate the number of rides we wanted.  We paid the rubles for the number of rides and received change and a card with the number of rides we requested on the card. Then we went through the turnstiles by placing the card on the yellow light on the turnstile and went through when the light turned green.  A small window on the turnstile then told us how many rides were then left on the card.  After going through the turnstile we took an escalator going a long, long way down in the ground to the platform where the trains arrived.  This is where things became confusing.  Almost all of the signs by the platform are in Cyrillic Russian language and we simply couldn't read them.  We did have a Metro map and you could determine what was involved by looking at the map and comparing it with the Cyrillic letters.  On the platform there were trains going in opposite directions.  You had to know what direction you wanted to go and then look to the signs to determine where the stations were in the direction you wanted to go.  You would especially look for the name of the station at the end of the line and look for that name on the sign and note the arrow pointing to the side of the platform where the train would arrive that was going to that station.       When the trains pulled into the station, you had to let people off the train and yet hurry on so the doors wouldn't slam on you.  The time was short (15 seconds or so) so you had to hurry.  Once you were on the train, the train moved FAST to the next station.  It was very hard to read a station's name while you were on the train because (1) often you couldn't see the sign with the station name, and (2) even if you could see a station sign it was all in Cyrillic letters and almost impossible to understand.  Therefore, to get off the train at the station you wanted, you had to check the Metro map at the station where you boarded or a paper metro map and count the number of stations from the boarding station to the station where you wanted to exit the train.  That was fine and generally doable except:  (1) on one train we were on, an announcement was made in Russian only that the train was going to skip (and not stop) at one of the stations (fortunately our guide was with us and translated for us), and (2) one train we were on stopped 2 stations before the end of the line where we were going and everyone else got off the train.  A couple of people (a young man and an elderly lady) were telling us we had to get off the train (because that was the end of the line for that train).  We were very lucky because one young man spoke very good English and told us that the train simply stopped there and we should simply get off and catch the next train which was only a few minutes behind and that second train would take us to the end of the green line, our exit station.  The assistance we received from Moscovites during that ride was one of our good experiences in our Russian trip.  The Moscow Metro was all very confusing.  It is much easier to ride the metro in London and Paris than it is to ride the metro in Moscow or St. Petersburg.      I don't want to discourage anyone from trying the Moscow Metro.  It is definitely the way to get around Moscow cheaply and efficiently.  It is also a great experience to see how people in Moscow deal with public transportation.  You do get a better feel for the city by riding the Metro.  If you miss your exit station, it is not a problem to get off and ride the Metro back to your station because a train will come the other way in just a few minutes.  You can figure it out and, wonderfully, there are always caring people willing to help you.;3;June 3, 2016
Definitely worth visiting;I spent half a day visiting metro stations and I highly recommend it. Moscow metro is efficient, clean, inexpensive, comfortable and beautiful. You will love it.;5;June 3, 2016
Even better than I imagined!;I had already heard many stories about the beauty and elegance of the Moscow Metro but they do not prepare you for how grand it is.  The design, artwork and architecture are magnificent and it is easy to see why Muscovites are so proud of it.  A must visit if you are in Moscow.;5;June 3, 2016
Must-see place in Moscow;This is really one of the most visited and must-see places in Miscow. Limit yourself to the stations in the center of Moscow within ring road (brown one). Walk around, make photos. Best time is from 10 to 16 to avoid rush hour. Visit for sure Mayakovskaya, Kievsjaya, Ploschad Revolyutsii, Teayralnaya, Arbatskaya stations. You can buy ticket for 1,2,5,10 or 60 entries. Do not expect that they speak English in the cash desk.Enjoy your time in Moscow!;5;June 3, 2016
The best in Soviet kitsch;If you are going to Miscow with a taste for Soviet imagery and nostalgia, there is no better place than the Moscow metro. Some of the stations have absolutely astounding art from the Soviet period.;5;June 3, 2016
The Best!;I love the Metro in Moscow. Very beautiful! fast! and very cheap!  Moscow metro is the best!Anyway, compared with most Metros in Europe, the one in Moscow is much more beautifulo;5;June 3, 2016
great metro station very long and deep but great design;i love the design of moscow metro , great paintings , sculptures , and very clean , had a great time ridding . all you need to know is some russian or pay very close attention .;5;June 3, 2016
Super!;I love the Metro in Moscow.  but you can buy reduced tickets for one month, for instance, o several journeys, and then it is cheaper. Anyway, compared with most Metros in Europe, the one in Moscow is much cheaper.The Metro of Moscow should be nominated as a Patrimony of the Humankind by UNESCO.;5;June 2, 2016
every station is unique;if you do not have something to in Moscow, just pick the metro and visit and have a stop to every station. very cheap ticket.;4;June 2, 2016
Crowded but makes you feel the life rhythm;Metro i think is one of the most crowded places in Moscow,but its always clean and interesting place to move with.;4;June 2, 2016
Best Metro!;Apart from a brief period between the late 1950's and the mid 1970's, when Khrushchev was in charge, every Metro station was built with its own individual theme - usually in-keeping with its location.When construction began in the 1930's, at the instigation of Josef Stalin, his overview required that it reflected the triumphs of Socialism and that the stations should embody "svet" (radiance or brilliance) and "svetloe budushchee" (a radiant future).;5;June 2, 2016
Great means of transport, beautiful stations...;Moscow Metro is extensive, inexpensive, punctual, comfortable and easy to use.  We downloaded Yandex Metro App which is bilingual (Russian & English), interactive and has the metro map for both Moscow & St. Petersburg.  Moreover, it works without WiFi / Data.After just a few trips, we figured out everything and travelled around Moscow with it.Several Metro stations are a storehouse of art.  Suggest take the Metro guided tour to enjoy them.;5;June 2, 2016
Efficient transportation;The Moscow metro is an efficient mode of transportation to travel in the city and outer neighborhood. It keeps to its time schedule. It also has free wifi. Some of the metro station have beautiful mosaics and art pieces. It is worth a visit.;4;June 2, 2016
Gotta Love those Stations.;Go on the subway if for no other reason than to see the Metro Stations. They are incredible. If you plan your route perfectly, you can see the best 5 Metro Stations in 90 minutes. Just Google "5 best Metro Stations in Moscow." You will love it.;5;June 1, 2016
Thumbs up to a great reliable transit system;I never had to wait more than 3 minutes for a train - ever. And even though I don't speak or understand Russian I was able to easily navigate through the city. Some of the terminals are beautiful and artistic, while some look like cold war bomb shelters. Either way it was great to avoid traffic and get where I needed to go quickly and reliably.;5;June 1, 2016
Underground palaces - worth seeing!;Follow the Trip Advisor self guided tour of the Moscow metro and see a selection of the best stations. The route suggested is logical to follow and the trains are frequent enough to get on and off and take your time at each stop, all for 50 rubles (the price of one journey!) The station names are in Cyrillic, so it helps to have a metro map with English and Cyrillic names to hand, to refer to as necessary along the way. If you need more historical facts, book a guided tour. Definitely a highlight of Moscow, a must see!;5;June 1, 2016
One of Stalin's greater achievements;Can thoroughly recommend a tour of the Moscow underground. The Stalin era decor was made to impress - and it's very impressive. The art works and details; bronze; marble; mosaics and lighting are impeccable. Added to which, it's the best way to get around Moscow!;4;June 1, 2016
Must see and felt Safe;We visited about five of the Metro stations at around 8.30pm to avoid the crowds as up to 7M people a day use these trains.  The incredible decorations include mosaics, parings and sculptures as well as ornate ceilings and chandeliers.  Watch for pick pockets but we felt completely safe and the passengers on the trains were incredibly friendly and courteous.;5;June 1, 2016
Unlike any other metro system in Europe;It costs 50p to travel all around the metro and look at the beautiful stations.  Some are nicer than others but every one is unique. Do go and have a look.  My favourites were kurskaya and plotschad.;5;June 1, 2016
Magical;You can spend a whole day just using the metro. Every station is a diffrent piece of art. For me it was the best part of Moscow!;5;June 1, 2016
Realy nice expermint;Although i like to use taxis but metro in mosco is nicer it run every 2 minutes clean well organised like visiting old mosco palaces or musium;5;May 31, 2016
Noisy & old but easy to use;Very old and noisy cars but otherwise a pretty standard ride. The metro map is actually quite good. Ticket costs 50RUB per person and gets you anywhere in the city;3;May 31, 2016
A great way to get around moscow;This was a very cheap way to get around Moscow (less then a dollar a trip). There are routes all over Moscow. The trains are clean and you seldom have to wait long for one as they come frequently. The signage is all in Russian so know what the name of your stop looks like in Russian otherwise it can be a little confusing. When changing from one line to another it can be tricky so you need to pay attention. What I found helpful to reassure myself I was in actual fact going in the right direction - into the city centre the announcer is a man and out from the city centre it is a woman.;4;May 31, 2016
Magnificent;Best designed and most efficient metro i've ever been so far. Built back almost 100 years ago the railway efficiently and effectively serves millions of people living and visiting Moscow. You can spend hours looking at mosaics and all other decor stuff.;5;May 31, 2016
Better read Russian;The Russians basically feel like if you don't speak or read Russian too bad for you. Many of the signs are only in Russian. So either take your time and ask lots of people (someone will eventually help) or make the effort to really read the stops you are making in advance and KNOW them before you go. Otherwise you might waste a lot of time trying to figure it out.;2;May 30, 2016
ornate metro stations;There are quite a few metro stations that are well worth a trip.  Once you have a ticket, you can get on and off at each station no problem.  Many are on the circle line, such as Belorusskaya, Kievskaya, Arbatskaya, Ploshchad Revolutsii, and others.  Explore and be amazed! Also each station that has a cross over line, will have variations of decor on that platform area too.;5;May 30, 2016
Certainly must spend more time exploring;It is so cheap to travel on the subway in Moscow with 50 roubles for a one pass trip. As long as you do not tap out, it is valid, so enjoy the stations.In our short visit, we only explored 4 stations: Park Pobedy (deepest in Moscow and 3rd deepest worldwide), Revolution square station and Kiyevskaya station. We left from Partizanskaya station to walk to Izmaylovskaya market. Kiyevskaya station is known for the murals on the ceilings while revolution square station has 76 bronze sculptures not to mention neat looking staircases! On hindsight now we realize Partizanskaya station has a parked train that is on display, so a good place to examine how the trains of the soviet era looked like.;4;May 30, 2016
Majestic!;The Metro stations in Moscow are like museums, very richly decorated with chandeliers, bronze statues, granite everywhere you look and impeccably clean.;5;May 30, 2016
A Must-See Uniquely Russian Experience;Either take an organised tour or research the best stations to see begfore you go. There are at least a dozen incredible ones.Tip: take a tour! It's otherwise a bit tricky to negotiate the various lines in a logical sequence, especially since all signs are in the Russian alphabet.You need about 2 hours before you get overwhelmed by it.;5;May 29, 2016
great;The metro is by far the best and cheapest way around Moscow, there is a fixed fare ( actually more of an entrance fee as it doesnt matter how far you travel the cost is the same) the fee is about 50 pence!!!! the trains are frequent and clean, although always busy, a VERY effecient system!!!;5;May 29, 2016
Beautiful, just beautiful;This is the most beautiful metro I have ever been to, and I haven't been to many of them in a lifetime.  It was originally built during WW2 to protect people in case of an invasion from the Nazis.  The areas are differently designed, there are murals and statues in the metro.  I especially like the legend of petting the nose of a dog, it would bring you good luck if you pet the nose of a dog statue.;5;May 29, 2016
The most beautiful underground service;Definitely the most beautiful underground train system I've seen. It's also a very efficient system, and really economical to get around the city.;5;May 29, 2016
Careful regarding language barrier..!;Very well connected network. The escalators are very steep and we were left marvelling at the architecture. Be careful with the stations. The station names are written in Russian so do your homework and know where you have to board and de-board and which exits you should take.;4;May 29, 2016
Best way to get about Moscow;Anyone doing any touring out with the city centre needs to use the metro, once you get the hang of it , even if you don't speak Russian you can still get about without to much trouble. The decor in some of the stations is beautiful!;4;May 29, 2016
Moscow metro station visits;This was recommended as something to look at the art in each station. Before i had the impression that the station ceilings were huge and decorious. I found them intersting as each had unique decorations, but not quite as impressive as i thought;3;May 29, 2016
Excellent to visit. Just do.;Excellent architecture and history in this underground rail system. Beautiful sculptures and paintings. Amazing. 200 meters underground.;5;May 28, 2016
Stunning.  Stunning.  Stunning.;The decor and architecture are incredible.  At every turn there are world class statues, ceilings, frescos, chandeliers, stain glass windows and art of all kinds.  The newer stations are nothing special, though.How lucky for the people of Moscow to see this every day.It's also cheap, reliable and gets you everywhere you need to go.  Ideal.;5;May 28, 2016
Moscow must see;While certainly not high tech in any way the varying design of many of the Moscow Metro underground stations is well worth a thorough look. The detail in the wall decorations is stunning.;4;May 28, 2016
Great way to get around;Reliable transportation around Moscow.  These trains run on a regular and frequent schedule.  They are not bicycle friendly, but I have seen people bring them on board once or twice.  I give them 4 of 5 due to their somewhat uncleanliness.  Some of the statues and chandeliers in the metro stations; especially near the Kremlin are amazing.  I love stopping to change lines in that area.;4;May 28, 2016
Really a must see;Yes, need to walk around, loose yourself.BUT, don't do that during peek hours. Try in the middle of the afternoon or even in weekends. Buy tickets in advance a look for guides in the internet. I followed this one and it was amazing:Kievskaya (blue line, west center - mosaics dedicated to the life of Ukrainian people), Komsomolskaya (circle line, north-east - mosaics on the ceiling), Mayakovskaya (green line, north - the winner of grand-prizes, decorated in a cool way), Ploshchad Revolutsii (blue line, center - sculptures of Russian workers, soldiers, and just normal people), Arbatskaya (blue line, center - just nice interior), Chkalovskaya (light green line, east center - one of the newly built stations, futuristic minimalistic design).;4;May 28, 2016
Brilliant connectivity to most part of Moscow.;One of the best network of metro stations in the world. Connects most part of Moscow and make travel very convenient. In less than a $1 one can reach any part of Moscow. The only drawback most Russian don't speak English so changing stations underground can get confusing.;4;May 28, 2016
Buy ticket at machines;Really busy place with really steep escalators. Struggled with directions due to language barrier. You have to buy ticket at machines so it can be a bit difficult. Stunning place and train seemed to be frequent;5;May 27, 2016
My favorite part of Moscow!;My first visit to Moscow was in 2005, and I absolutely fell in love with the metro. I was not let down when I returned this year.Every station is a piece of history. Even the most basic ones have some interesting aspect - artwork, how they were built, the surrounding neighborhood...It's a packed madhouse during rush hour, and it can feel ghostly at night right before it closes.Don't expect signs to be in English - although they are adding some, it is still primarily in Russian. But I hate to tell you, you're in for a rude awakening if you go to Russia with no knowledge of how to speak or read the language. Very few people speak much English beyond basic formalities.The center of the city has the oldest stations, but be sure to make your way to the outskirts where you can see brand new stations that just opened in the last year or so.You pay one price to get on, and then you can stay in there all day. Budget at least half a day to simply wander the stations. Don't miss Mayakovskaya, Ploschad Revolutsy, Arbatskaya (on the dark blue line), Novoslobodskaya, Tsvetnoi Bulvar, Komsomolskaya, and Park Pobedy.;5;May 27, 2016
Not your typical metro station;Every stop along the way wasTotally different - unique - and simply fascinating !  There's so much to take in, plan on 15-20 minutes per stop to ensure you see as much as you can.;5;May 27, 2016
Impressive decor;Took the metro and visited a few stations with a group of friends in May 2016. The stations were quite spacious and decor attractive. More like classic architecture than tube stations. The one with marble finishing was particularly grand and impressive. Well worth a visit as a tourist.;4;May 27, 2016
Facinating art and design on every journey;Whether you are fighting with the hordes of travelers at rush hour or can find an opportunity to view the most spectacular metro stations anywhere, it is always worth a moment to pause and look around.As a free "exhibition", the visitor could do far worse than spend half a day on the metro exploring the diverse station designs, from the art deco influences at Mayakovskaya to the more Stalinest sculptures at Arbatskaya. Most are listed elsewhere on the web, and, as long as you stay in the metro system, there is no limit to how far you can travel on one ticket, this is true value for money.I'd thoroughly recommend a metro map (paper or electronic) before entering, as maps only appear on the trains - but just get on one and see where it goes!Trains are usually less than 2 minutes apart, so almost no waiting around, especially impressive if you are used to the London Underground.;5;May 26, 2016
The most popular and nicest Metro in the world!;So nice stations, so interesting and kept clean. Busy during peak hours, but otherwise calm and much better in so many ways than any USA metro or London.;5;May 26, 2016
A story behind every station;Where ever you go, the station itself will be worth a look.Don't plan it, trust me, going to famous sites you'll see stations you were ment to see...the ones that have a lucky dog whose nose you have to touch and your wish comes true, an old train and a truck that pulled them, skupltures of soldiers, and a lot more suprises...;5;May 24, 2016
Amazing decor, but no signage in English;If you feel puzzled whether you are inside a metro or a well designed museum by looking at the wonderful decors. The escalators are big (take 70 seconds to climb). However there are no signage or direction in English which is truly challenging.;5;May 24, 2016
Amazing!;The Moscow Metro is amazing! Take your time and go see the different station. Definitely worth it! Komsomolskaya Metro Station (Комсомо́льская) was my favorite.;5;May 24, 2016
Stunning architecture;Truly great is the Moscow metro system. From the number of people it transfers to the punctuality of the timetable.But the most stunning part are metro stations.Remarkable and unique architecture adorns each and every of the stations, with the ones being near the city centre the oldest and most beautiful. My favourite is Mayakovskaya.Even if you don't need it, use metro just to enjoy those stunning display of unexpected art gems.Little notification: everything in the metro underground is written in cyrilic.;5;May 24, 2016
Stunning;Stunning is the right word to use.....!!! absolutely magnificent. i think everyone should try this as this is something which you cannot see ever in your life if you are not in Moscow;5;May 23, 2016
Great architecture;Blown away by the quality of the stations. A little confusing as none of the signs are in English but with a little persistence it isn't too difficult to find your way. Reasonably priced and much quicker than by road. Give it a go.;5;May 23, 2016
Great rainy-day activity (outside of peak hours);Great architecture in so many stations. A good start would be the brown circle line from the top, eastwards. Many of our favourite stations were there. Avoid rush hour though as it gets pretty hectic and makes it difficult to take good pictures.;5;May 23, 2016
Efficient Mode of Transport;The Moscow Metro is perfect for getting around this city that suffers from an overload of cars and severe lack of buses / trolleybuses in the city centre. It's cheap, frequent and many of the stations put some of our art galleries to shame.;5;May 23, 2016
Totally worth it !!;We took up the special metro tour offered by the local guides..it was totally worth every penny we paid.u will see such detailed and intricate work..each station caters to a different theme..;4;May 22, 2016
Bst to know Russian alphabet;Initially went with a guide-then ventured alone.Difficult to know which direction to travel and signage only in Russian,Many glamorous stations,best go with a guide.Multi journey pre pay cards are fine and you only need to check in on entry;4;May 22, 2016
Excellent means to get around;Uses the metro after work to see the sights. We were pleasantly surprised by its cleanliness and friendliness of staff. Do get a good-quality print of the entire system to make navigating easier - remember there isn't much English.;5;May 22, 2016
Pretty;Well maintained. Very clean. Paintings, statues, stories of war heroes embossed on the walls... We used the metros to go to a few places. Very convenient and quick;3;May 22, 2016
Metro tour a must see and do!;I read about this and made reservations on line and was so pleased with the tour and so amazed by the metro,stations we saw. Magnificent! The group was about 8 people and the guide, Elana was superb. Her English is excellent and I enjoyed her vast knowledge and enthusiasm for Moscow's interesting history. Don't miss it! Be sure to ask about the " package" of all four tours that is a good investment.;5;May 22, 2016
moscow metro - engineering marvel;Its an engineering marvel of first half of twentieth century with a excellent blend of technology, architecture and art.;5;May 22, 2016
Each one Unique!;Every metro has a different design! chandeliers, statues, art on the walls and ceilings! A MUST Visit. the brown line has a lot of historical metros. all lines are interconnected, and i would suggest a day to just explore all the metros.;5;May 21, 2016
Wstunning railway stations;The stations I have visited are almost beyond belief. It's like having dozens of art galleries all around the city.  The stations are busy providing over 9 million passenger journeys per day but stop and look at the magnificence of these stations, the like of which I have not seen before and may never again.;5;May 21, 2016
Moscow Metro used daily;We used the Moscow Metro on a daily basis to travel around the city. Best if you can at least distinguish the cyrillic "Russian" letters because there are many tunnels between stations, and the train announcements are in Russian. This is a great opportunity to practice your Russian reading skills. The graphics are poor but the train stations are impressive, the service is impressive, and although busy, there always seems to be space for us tourists.;5;May 21, 2016
Museums in the subways for $1.00;Wow!!  Buy a single ticket to the Metro and then go see the "museums" in the metro. Almost every Metro in the central area is ornate with art depicting great times in Russian history   We were amazed !!!;5;May 21, 2016
You just have to see;One of the most historical and biggest metro in the world. Every station has different style. Quiet easy to use.;5;May 21, 2016
Like a historic Museum ....to admire;Travelling with Moscow Metro is a pleasure: variety of metro stations, safe, clean, good schedule, you would never wait. Moscow Metro is one of the Moscow attractions itself...simply to admire. Just today we got out from the newly finnished station Prospekt Mira and the main entrance Door is...judge yourself:-). The best way how to explore the city...;5;May 20, 2016
Beautiful AND efficient!;Everything just works, perfectly, but it can be VERY crowded.  Always felt perfectly safe but since EVERY instruction and sign is ONLY in Russian... not that easy to navigate.  Some of the halls and corridors are spectacular!;5;May 20, 2016
one of the most beautiful Metro the world (I have ever seen);We are lucky to be escort by our Russish friend.  Otherwise it could be difficult and a bit lost in the city. Because there are no sign in English and when you cannot read Russish.  You life would not be easy in Russia :-(It was my first trip to Moscow and I must said that I was really impress from the city.  I did not expect Moscow to be modern and sooooooo clean.Moscow Metro is a MUST when you are there.;5;May 20, 2016
Night Tour of the Metro;We went on a night tour of the Metro.  This was a guided tour from the river cruise we were on.  The architecture was different and very interesting at each station we stopped at.The station are very clean and easy to navigate.  Trains come very frequently.We felt safe moving around although we were advised to be careful of pick pockets.;5;May 20, 2016
Be brave;Absolutely stunning architecture and well worth it.  I'd recommend you plan your route beforehand and write down the names of the stations in advance. Once you get the hang of it, it's well worth every rubel.  We spent an entire rainy day just riding from one station to the next and admiring the beautiful stations.  All for R400!;5;May 19, 2016
Underground Museum;Fantastic place, its a must in Moscow. If you will use it for 5 days or more then purchase Troika card.;5;May 19, 2016
Moscow Metro!;The Moscow Metro is probably the most magnificent subway of the world. It is not only beautiful, but also cheap, reliable and runs on time. In Moscow the Metro is often the fastest way to get around the city compared to other means of public transportation, taxis or driving. During rush hours, metro trains run every one to two minutes.;5;May 19, 2016
Outstanding;Each station is like a monument on its own. We would ride around on the train several times just to see all the stations;5;May 19, 2016
Where am I?;You need to know a few things before descending into the visual delight that is the Moscow Metro. Go even if you don't want to go anywhere. Unless you speak or have a knowledge of Russian don't use to get from the Airport. At worst work out the alphabet to our equivalent. Good Luck and have fun!;5;May 19, 2016
Well worth ther adventure;Took a deep breath and ventured on to the Metro. Colour coded just like London, took my time and used the floor signs but well worth every moment to really see how everyone travels. A must try experiance if in Moscow even if you only spend R50 to go an look at the stunning architecture;5;May 18, 2016
Very clean;Moscow Metro is one of the cleanest metro I saw. SOme stations are very unique and beautiful. It is worth of it to look some of them.;5;May 18, 2016
A museum at every stop;You could spend an entire day in the metro system. Each station is unique and beautiful. Read up on the history of each station, especially during the war. Fascinating stuff!;5;May 18, 2016
Museum on wheels;One could easily spend a whole day underground in Moscow. Pay attention to all the lovely art details. And with wifi on board!;5;May 18, 2016
The AMAZING Moscow Metro!;Every station a work of art. Every journey an experience.I'm a veteran of 'undergrounds' from London thru Paris etc. This is sensational. The stations are works of art - the trains run like bloody hell! LEARN YOUR CYRILLIC! otherwise you're screwed!;5;May 18, 2016
Oh My the Metro!;We met a friend who had recently taken up residence in Moscow for our day tour of the Metro system. Each stop was like an individual visit to a museum. The long descent into the system was a little off setting at first but the scenes at the end were so worth it. They were expansive and ornately decorated (as they were intended to act as potential bunkers should that have been necessary in a time of attack). They were always on time and the Russian efficiency was obvious at every stop. We went on a Saturday morning which was much quieter as millions use the system as a main means of transportation throughout their work week. very glad we did it especially with our wonderful guide, Vic.;5;May 18, 2016
Incredible artistic experience;Travel through the metro and leave the train in almost every station to admire the sculptures, paintings and other artwork decorating every wall in this underground (and get stared at by the locals while you walk at a different pace from them).You can also get a metro tour where they take you to the best stations to admire.;5;May 17, 2016
The Highlight of my trip;My 21 year old daughter and I spent an entire morning travelling the length and breath of Moscow looking at the metro systems architecture and it was without doubt the highlight of my trip.Each station is totally unique and like an underground gallery or museum, so many beautiful architectural features, grand lighting, mosaics, mouldings, statues and arches. It is one of the most beautiful places I have ever seen! The metro is extremely clean, efficient and brilliant value for money. Although the trains themselves appear slightly older than in London, I thought their retro beauty enchanting.If in Moscow this is an experience that should not be missed.;5;May 17, 2016
affordable and efficent;There are some glamourous stations and the ride only costs 50 roubles or one CAD.  You can get across the city very quickly and the trains come every minute or two.  Great fun to people watch too.;5;May 17, 2016
What's a sight to see;It makes you wonder about all the misleading propaganda that goes on about Russia being backwards.. This has to be the most impressive. Underground station in the world by far...;4;May 17, 2016
Fantastic cleanliness and ease of travel;Travelled from the Kremlin area to the SE and NW. Providing you noted the Cyrillic place names and counted the stations; the single line service was easy to travel and understand. Some beautiful stations but rather noisy trains.;4;May 17, 2016
metro;See stations like Kievskaya and Slavyansky Bulvar with their pompous halls and high stucco ceilings versus those built later, like Volzhskaya – lightly adorned with sparse furnishings. Your guide will discuss how architect Alexey Dushkin and painter Alexander Deyneka were just two of the many artists who made these magnificent landmarks possible.;5;May 17, 2016
Deep metro;It is one of the deepst metro I have travelled in. Initially I was afraid when I set foot on the escalator it was so long. It took 1 minute and 40 seconds to reach. Awestruck !;5;May 17, 2016
Impressive;Definitely different experience - big, functional, historical, and secure. Enjoyed my travel, will do it again!;4;May 17, 2016
Beautiful stations;The metro stations in Moscow are awesome. Some of them are normal but most of them afe amazing specially mayacofskaya;4;May 17, 2016
Museums underground;The Metro in Moscow is stunning! Is basically underground museums - each station is unique and very charming. I wish I had time to go to all of them.;5;May 16, 2016
Cheap,  convenient and beautiful.;I must say it looks like a theatre, beautiful. But is it friendly? Not at all. You better have have a Russian speaker with you as nothing is in English.;4;May 16, 2016
Learn cyrillic;Learn some cyrillic signs, so you don't get lost in Moscow. Beautiful stations, beautiful experience. You can't visit Moscow without the metro. You need it to travel fast through the city.But stations are not in English but in Cyrillic. Adventure. Don't fear for mistakes. The metro is very cheap.;5;May 16, 2016
Great metro;Looks clean , pretty easy toUnderstand, should be more English directions for tourists, old trains but very fast, better then taxis.;3;May 16, 2016
how to use the metro in Moscow- not easy but possible;Moscow metro ride Metro mobility is a good thing in Moscow because of traffic jams. The problem is that all metro signs are written only in Russian so there is a problem of orientation.Stations look very nice as museums but orientation is not simple. Most people in Moscow do not speak English so it's hard even to get an explanation Today there are metro maps that can be found in hotels and stations, which stops are in Russian and English. You should always compare what is written in Russian by the English map and signs. - Not simple and takes timeThe principle is this. There is a brown line the circle line - which is a closed circuits and other lines are up and down with different colors and numbers. The easiest thing is to go by color. What confuses- if there is one place where three lines (three colors) intersect, then each color station is called by a different name even though it is in the same place, for example a meeting between the three lines closest to the Kremlin. Line 2 green: you are looking for TEATRLANYA stationRed Line no 1 – you are looking for   station OCHOTNY RYAD And the blue line no 3 you are looking for   station PLOSHCHAD REVOLYUTSI The exterior has separate entrances but there a connection between all of them under the ground. (It's actually signs trial and error.)Tickets s – you can buy travel card for 20 trips card which can be used by some people- it's not personal.You buy it at the KACCA this is cash in Russian. Pass it to a card reader and go down. Down the stairs- Before them there will sign with some lines by color and number. For example: green. Go down toward the sign GREEN LINE   -And to find the appropriate target platform you need to take.There is a sign with an arrow for each side. The sign will only be in Russian - I found the best method is to identify what is the next name of the first stop in the direction you want to go.  You should come prepared with information how it is written in Russian. And how many stations you want to travel to your destination and then count. All announcements are in Russian it is impossible to understand.You should enter fast to the wagon the doors close without warning and hold on tight. Metro travels faster and braking hard .plan ahead where you want to go and where to transfer and be prepared.When to transfer Metro line –get off search for the color of the line you want to go (there is a picture of man and steps) follow the direction by the color you need   to look for the right platform and direction in same method mentioned earlierTo get out to the city has a white sign with black letters. G to escalator follow others... At the end the exit door out will be written in GREEN. If there is a red sign you must not get out from there  Please note that on the escalators stand on the right so that the people running left to catch the subway, if you block, supervisor of the place by cameras will shout at you by the loudspeaker. He sits at the edge of the stairs and has camerasIt is not easy but after a few ride you will adapt!! Good luck!! ps visit the stations - some of them are very unique  decorated - nice art! better to take a guided tour . but you can do it also yourself.;4;May 15, 2016
Beautiful but crowded;They say it's the most beautiful subway in the World. It's hard to disagree, but it's also a huge network of stations, connections etc. I loved the place but Moscow, being Russia's biggest city had the busiest subway ever. It's easy to get lost if you're there alone and connecting stations look like they're just next to each other on the map, but in reality they are miles away from each other and you walk for good 20+ minutes to get from one station to other. However it's a fair price to pay as the stations are something out of this world. They are very beautiful. However, dirty, lots of hobos, trains look like they stepped out of 1955. That's why I rate it 3/5 as much as I'd like to rate it higher, but I think if you want it to be popular, you should invest money in it, or at least clean the place better.;3;May 15, 2016
Metro Stations with historic significance;We had a guided tour of the metro stations by 'Moscow Private Tour'. It was a good decision. Though you can visit all the metro stations by yourself , the historical significance is something you might miss. Sirine was our tour guide. She did a splendid job in explaining the minutest details. She had a tablet and showed us the before and after pictures. How different eras for eg the soviet, post Soviet had changed the design and murals.I would strongly recommend a guided tour.For commute, metro is the easiest means of transportation. It is quick, easy and fun. You can buy an electronic card which can be topped up. Download the Yandex metro app for added convenience.;5;May 15, 2016
The only possible transport;Moscow metro is the fastest and most reliable transport in this city. It's cheap, safe and you can plan your time.Apart from its functionality it has incredible beautiful stations.;5;May 15, 2016
Russian Letters;At the beginning if you cannot read the Russian letters, it would be tough. Once you learn Cyrillic letters, this Metro is good.;3;May 15, 2016
Beautiful stations but with a political agenda;Go on a guided tour of the most beautiful metro stations and be amazed at their sumptuousness and variety. However all seemed to have messages and not be of art for arts sake. You see statues of many workers, statues of Lenin, messages about relations with parts of former USSR. Look at the different chandeliers, ventilation systems etc. Fascinating!;3;May 14, 2016
Metro;The Moscow Metro is by far the most impressive subway system in the world.  For 50 roubles you can go anywhere in Moscow and see sculptures that have been there since the 30's.  I recommend giving it one whole day and just ride it all over the city and see how each station has its own unique character and style.;5;May 13, 2016
Quickly get where you need to really!;My impression as a city resident beneficial in terms of opportunities to get to any part of the city (almost) real fast. As part of the aesthetic and educational experience you get. For this answer themed trains, just as the beauty of the old registration stations.It was built a long time and at the beginning of a special meaning has been in use all tunnels and underground parts, like a bomb shelter. In general, during the Second World War and did. Now, modern station is mainly utilitarian simple, but sometimes it is still beautiful and unusual. Equipped with facilities for people with disabilities.I wish you a pleasant use and become familiar with this object Moscow movement. The style Soviet Realism and Baroque;4;May 13, 2016
Special;I passed quite often in the nice station and it is such a difference to London. OLD GLORY. Watch the hrads of the travellers and the shoed. In winter they have walking shors and change them in the office.;4;May 12, 2016
A tourist attraction unto itself;The Moscow Metro is an extremely efficient public transport system and an architctual wonder. Exremely inexpensive and very clean, I used it as a mode of transport and on a near-empty Sunday evening, for a good hour and a half, as a tourist attraction.  Aside from using it to get around, a tour of the beautifully constructed and ornate stations is a must.;5;May 12, 2016
Imagine what it was like 30 years ago;Moscow's metro, probably the most famous underground in the world. We took a guided tour from our hotel and our lovely guide Irinia entered Pavletskaya metro station with us, what a breathtaking experience. She explained that back in the Soviet days the metro was seen as underground palaces for the working class, as there would have been no joy for them on street levels, just hard work, these prestigious stations were built. Truly amazing. Other than that the trains are running very regular, you got free wifi. Nothing more can be expected from a public transportation I think.;5;May 12, 2016
On time and easy;Great stations and a hard working system   No fooling around and delivering the service. Efective and inexpensive. Also all around was clean and working plus police presence for safety and security;5;May 11, 2016
Moscow Subway;Get on subway in Moscow and you will be able to admire beautifully decorated subway stations. I like station "Belorusskaya". It is very beautiful.;4;May 10, 2016
Great service;We have used the Metro since arriving and the stations are clean and very ornate.The trains run every 2 mins so there are no long waits if you just miss one. If you get a Troika card the fairs cost .32 per journey.;5;May 10, 2016
Best metro;The system is really efficient; trains run every 3 minutes. The trains are a bit old but all very clean. The stations are amazing - some temples to the old soviet era and beautifully decorated and cared for. They are clean and don't smell - unlike Paris and London that stink of urine and are filthy and dangerous.;5;May 10, 2016
They need to bring English into their system;They need to bring English language into their system all the sign boards are in Russian not everyone visit Russia knows Russian there is lot of language problem;1;May 10, 2016
An experience not to miss;While in Moscow our tour guide Maria took us to various metro stations. The ones we saw were ornate one that I remember was revolutionary... Or maybe associated with revolutionaries. They were each different from the other. I found that the metro travel was the most convenient and fast way to travel in Moscow. On our second day .. A day before the victory day we had to take the metro to visit the red square. I enjoyed it immensely.;5;May 10, 2016
Easy to travel with;Few station's architecture is beauty If you can read the scripts, it's very easy to use the metro and in case you need help, Russians are very friendly and helpful;5;May 9, 2016
A unique way to appreciate Moscow and its history;Take a tour through Russian history taking the Ploshad revolucii to Mayakovska and then to Belaruskaya. You will find amazing art, architecture and some layers of telling history which can make your experience in Moscow much more closer to the real people;5;May 8, 2016
Every two minutes;First and most important thing is that you don't have to jump in the train if you are in hurry because next will come in two minutes (due to my experience). Everybody should visit at least few  stations mostly on brown line. Touch the statue of dog in metro Ploschad Revolutsii and make selfie. I don't know better metro than Moscow metro.;5;May 7, 2016
Beautiful Metro;The metro was incredible.  There was marble and chandeliers on stops and murals done in colored tile.  It was clean with no graffiti.  It was really beautiful.;5;May 7, 2016
A. Bitker;Great transportation service, once I understood the system was very easy to travel all across the city. Clean, no graffiti no stink, Polite people Very impressed with low cost ability to get around. More than happy with visit.;5;May 7, 2016
A must see!;The Metro is fantastic..trains run every minute so you have to be quick on and off. Escalators are long and very steep. Watch you pockets!  The decoration/chandeliers/glass work etc; has to be seen to be believed.  Take the train and stop at several stations to take in all the beauty;5;May 5, 2016
Undeground mueseum;What a beautiful place! The real palaces for people. The only thing - avoid rush hours or it can be the real disaster. The cheapest and easiest way to go to any place in Moscow.;4;May 5, 2016
Soviet Style efficient transportation;Subway price is not expensive and some places have escalators other places you have to walk up and down the stairs, I didn't see any elevators, if you have a heavy suitcase, good luck carrying it. Subway is deep under ground. If you get lost I don't think that many people speak English. Stations are decorated, but the subway and trains are old looking. I suggest to print out a subway map so you don't get lost especially at the transfers. I hope they would install elevators it would really help people going to and from airport with luggage's.;3;May 4, 2016
A working art gallery;An underground delight. From the beautiful chandeliers to paintings and statues, the Metro is a must see.;5;May 4, 2016
I have  never seen anything like it;The metro is in many stations like a museum or a palace. Its incredible. Many of the really great stations are along the brown circle line. I do not think you need take one of the tours. It costs only 50 cents to travel on the system. Also the trains come every 2 minutes until 1 a.m. So you can move along fast.;5;May 4, 2016
The history of the Moscow Metro;Our guides from Bridge to Moscow and Hirosho recommended that we visit some of the Metro stations (we used the Metro to get to our Sapsan train to St. Petersburg, and it is very efficient, but NOT disabled traveller friendly - almost all stairs and no lifts).;5;May 4, 2016
Beautiful Stations But No One Ever Warns You About The Escalators!;I wouldn’t bother booking an expensive tour, as there are plenty of suggested itineraries and information on the internet and it is easy enough to get around on your own. Tickets are cheap and are not timed; it’s just a flat rate of 50 rubles per journey. There are also various options in terms of stored value cards (Troika 32 rubles per journey) etc. Trains and frequent and some stations are more interesting than others but no one ever talks about the escalators! The same also applies to the St. Petersburg Metro. The stations are located deep underground and that means escalator journeys of over a minute. You normally can’t see from one end to the other. I’m scared of heights (although I am normally OK with escalators) and found the whole experience terrifying, no matter how relaxed I tried to be each time I got on. It didn’t help that the hand rail was always moving at a different speed to the main system, nor that it shook, or that you could see through the gaps between the steps on the way up. I was holding on for dear life whilst other people were casually walking up and down. I definitely wouldn’t recommend it if you have luggage.;4;May 4, 2016
Efficient transport;Efficient transport system. Good walkways underground. Some stations have history and nice decorations and sculptures. Really recommended to visit the station that have the nice decorations like the Ploschad Revolyutsii station.;3;May 4, 2016
Beautiful;Not bit of graffiti in sight beautiful architecture.  Has to be seen to be believed. Recommend travelling a few stations to see how far they all are;5;May 3, 2016
Good but noisey like New York ,Montreal and Paris have it right with rubber wheels .quite and smooth .;Great subway and easy to follow if you understand English. So here is the parody,Russian learn English in high school,yet the subway has zero English signs .even in China they have English sign.while I respect local language,second her is English so why not publish it in the metro.?;5;May 3, 2016
Magnificent;I recommend too take a 2 hours of you evening free time and travel through the most beautiful metro in the world. There are about 7-8 best stations which you definitely need to see, you can do the full trip on one metro ticket (50 RUB). Best time to go is 11-12 PM.;5;May 3, 2016
Discover beautiful artwork;This is something you wont regret you saw. Take the metro within the ring. See the different themes at each station. It is made in timetypical artwork such av sculpturing, art nouveau, Stalin-empire, classisisme etc. Some metrostations Will make You feel like you are standing in a livingroom;5;May 3, 2016
reliable and safe;There is a connection every  single minute1 Very quick way of travel. and of course very interesting ambience.;5;May 3, 2016
Wonderful architecture and very efficient and easy Metro to use.;Wow. I have done the New York, London and Paris Metros but Moscow is my favourite. The architecture is incredible with each one different. We were told they just opened their 200th station. Very simple to use and trains coming very often. We never had to wait more than 5 minutes for a train even after one just left the station. We bought a Troika Card for 50RUB from one of the ticket offices and then added 350RUB to it. The cost of a single trip with the Troika Card is 32RUB. If you prefer to buy single or double tickets without using the Troika then the trips are 50RUB each. You can transfer internally within the Metro Stations to other lines without using another trip. The Metro Map is very handy. We used the Metro to visit the Bolshoi Theatre, Nikulin Circus and Ismailovsky Market. We felt very safe and loved the fact that everyone waits for people to get off the train before getting on. It was very orderly. Highly recommended.;5;May 2, 2016
So efficient, easy to use, clean and fast.;An excellent way to get around Moscow.  We were able to negotiate our way around.  We bought a troika card for 50RB and put 500RB on it.  Each trip was 32RB. If you have time do a tour of the Metro (simply get off at various stops to have a look another train is less than 2 minutes away) Some Metro stops are exquisite, so decorative.  They are extremely clean.  People are respectful and orderly.  Keep right on the escalators if you are not overtaking.  You will see lots of couples cuddling as they ride these steep and long escalators - it's lovely.;5;May 2, 2016
Not sure what the fuss is all about.;I'm using the metro all over Moscow, some stations have more character than others but from what I've seen I wouldn't recommend going out of your way to see them. There's little (if any) English in most stations, so plan ahead of how to get where. I found counting the stops helps to work out where you are!;3;May 1, 2016
A museum undergroung!;A must place to visit and see. Many many beautiful stations made of marble including stunning are from the soviet times. Even if you travel by other means you have to visit the metro.;5;May 1, 2016
metro tour;I took a special tour to see metro. It was amazing. I have never seen anything like that.Very beautiful stations that are totally different;5;May 1, 2016
Spectacular tube station;The most beautiful unground I have ever been to - worth a visit just to see - incredible to think it's just a tube station the attention to detail of the stations are amazing !!!!!;5;April 30, 2016
Beutiful underground;We visit Moscow Metro that has many beautiful station that we can't ezplain or spell cause from No English at all. If you reach it to photo you must to remember numbers of station. I think that Moscow Metro  should has English to help foreigner.;3;April 30, 2016
amazing;the most amazing metro seen ever , stations are like palaces light up and marbled. so beautiful also i suppose would have been a bunkers in the past days.;4;April 30, 2016
Take your life into your own hands...;Well it was 5pm on a Friday and I just came in from Domodedovo airport aeroexpress. Arrived into Paveletsky station and immediately didn't have a clue of which train I needed to take to get close to my hotel. I only knew if I could find the right train that it would be three stations to the stop. Luckily I remembered this fact and a nice platform lady who works for the Metro spoke enough English to under my ask for Tverskaya station and points to the platform I needed to be at. There are no signs when the train pulls into the station and the stops are short and fast. I ended up asking others on the train if I had reached Tverskaya station and they said yes confirming my dead reckoning of three stops. The upside is that it's cheap and efficient as it cost me 50rub one way and 470rub from the airport so for 520rub vs 2200rub for the private taxi I got the last time I was here. So, totally worth the experience but if you have any sort of bulking luggage that slows you down... Don't do it! Take a taxi. The crush of people into the escalator is definitely an experience... Must be a haven for pickpockets. One more thing... The Metro is on three levels and the crazy steep escalators are mind boggling. Must be from the cold war days of having deep shelters for the BIG one. Anyways definitely get a Metro map for your smartphone...one that has both English characters and Cyrillic to help you decode the names of the station.;3;April 30, 2016
Easy to see;We did this one one Sunday morning for the 50p we saw 18!stations on the central line. All different some of them more interesting than others. Probably would have been good to have a guide to explain. But still worth a visit if only to see how efficient the metro is also.;5;April 30, 2016
Every station is unique and beautiful;I highly encourage you to take some sort of a Metro tour to learn the history, but if you're not able to, try giving it a few hours and travel along the lines and visit 4-5 central stations for each line.They are really worth seeing.;5;April 29, 2016
Fabulous Mosaics & Fun Night;At twilight, we set off for the Metro with a guide...she took us through the maze of all the lines, so that we could take in each of the different terminals and their mosaics.  It was like being at an amusement park...so much fun...on and off...on and off the trains. At each stop, we walked around a terminal and she lectured on the artwork and mosaics.  Then back on a train to the next line/terminal.  Again a walkaround with excellent commentary.  Our last stop put us outside Red Square all lit with twinkly lights. There we had an hour or so to take in the square at night.  We were glad we had a guide...we would never have been able to navigate so many lines and terminals without her.  Highly advise a guide...the METRO a MUST-SEE in Moscow.;5;April 29, 2016
5 most beautiful Moscow's metro stations/ underground palaces;#1 Prozhad Revolutsii - sculpture gallery of sailors, soldiers, miners, students some are with animals. For many years it is already a tradition to go there and touch the sculptures for the good luck, especially for students before exams for good marks.#2 Mayakovskaya  known for 34 mosaics laid in niches under a ceiling, executed by Alexander Deyneka's sketches named "Dailies of the Country of Soviets".#3 Komsomolskaya  is a project of the patriarch of the Soviet architecture Alexey Shchusev, the author Mausoleum of Lenin, the Central telegraph building and the Kazan railway station under which there is the Komsomolskaya station located. The ceiling is decorated with 8 mosaics of smalt and valuable stones, devoted to the historical fights of the Russian people for their independence.#4 Novoslobodskaya is called  "The underground stone flower fairy tale" for its 32 glass stained-glass panels, framed by gold brass stamping. The most famous mosaic panel called "World peace" which was done by the icon painter Corin in accordance with the famous icon called the "Mother of God".#5 Taganskaya's station ceiling reminds of medieval Gothic architecture, and the main jewelry of station — scaphoid ceramic panels reminds of the Russian traditional women cover for a head called "kokoshnik". During construction of the station it was planned to take down St. Nicholas The Wonderworker church on Bolvanovka street. However engineers have revealed the wonder themselves of saving the church by implementing new technical solutions.;5;April 28, 2016
Artistic Metro Stations;I  have Never seen Any metro stations  like the ones we saw  in Moscow. They are really quite special. Some have chandeliers, art work on the walls, artistic lighting on the ceilings, paintings, you name it.  They are as astonishing,  as they are unique.;4;April 27, 2016
Not the easiest to get round;Very much worth a trip round the main stations on the Moscow underground. The architecture is great as is the historical context. Unless you know the cyrillic alphabet it can be a challenge to follow the underground map and the entrances and exits at the stations;4;April 27, 2016
Must see;Russian metro is probably is a most beautiful architectural constructions you will ever see. Anyone who visit's Moscow should make an effort to see old stations but you should have an app on your phone it will help you to move without difficulty.;5;April 27, 2016
The metro of  Moscow is a museo underground.;Hard to choose the unmissable subway stations in Moscow. I found it is a separate program and perhaps one of the cheapest in town. The most beautiful are close to the center. The Plochad Revolutsi and Teatralnaya are in the Kremlin and the Bolshoi region. They are in different rows but have ground connection for transfers. Therefore, a can go to the other on foot. In the ring line (Koltsevaya), the Komsolmolskaya the Kurskaya, Taganskaya to the Park Kultury, the Kievskaya, the Beloruskaya and Novoslobodskaya worth a stop. In the blue line, the Park Pobedy and Elektrozavodskaya also are worth, as well as the Kievskaya, which also has a station on this line. Do not let go to Mayakovskaya, a favorite of the Russians.It is a tour of the golden age of Bolshevism, Russian art before World War II. All capitaias the world that I visited is certainly the most impressionate meter. The more than 300 km of metro network take you in all parts of the Russian capital.;5;April 26, 2016
Nice & Deeper Metro;I have ever seen the longest and deepest metro, well organized.  few confusions about the stations apart from that all well.;5;April 26, 2016
Magic in the subway;Just before arriving just before arriving  to Moscow. In disguise I read amazing story about how the metro was constructed.The work by the youth of that city, working for free in order to make their city have a good transport system. I have to say the experience was incredible Its like walking in underground museums. If you are in Moscow is definetly a not to miss.;5;April 26, 2016
The masterpiece for everyone...;Since it's opening to the public in 1936 the Moscow metro was destined to become a real jewel of Soviet and later Russian architecture. Most of it's stations considered to be the masterpieces deservedly as the remarkable examples of the embodiment of engineering. I recommend all my foreign friends to start their acquaintance with Moscow from going underground,because it may not only allow to learn about our country's  history,but also to feel the rhythm of modern megapolis life.;5;April 25, 2016
Download the app if you don't read Russian;The Moscow metro is almost undoubtedly the most spectacular of the worlds metro systems as many of the stations are spectacular and give you a glimpse of the ambitions and outlook of 1930's and 40's soviet Russia.However if you don't speak Russian then navigating is not easy as there are very few signs in English.  So figuring out which way you want to travel is not the easiest.  Therefore download the metro app which can be found on istore at Yandex.metro.  It does require swapping between English and Russian to figure out which way you want to goI recommend mayakovskaya and kiyevskaya stations as two that are worth visiting;4;April 25, 2016
Mesmerizing beauty of Moscow;Moscow metro stations are not just metro stations but they are pieces of arts. These are Russia’s most extravagant architectural projects.It is worth to dedicate one or two days of your trip to see all metro stations in Moscow. All you have to do is buy a metro card (Cards are available in many options but for this task I recommend you to buy a card based on how many trips you can make and you can do the task by just spending one or two trips of your card) and get down at each and every station and experience the beauty of it. Metro system is quite fast and I guess you can cover many stations in a day.And if you have a good camera and can spend sometimes for these metro stations to capture pictures of them you will surely be able to do a photographic exhibition.;5;April 25, 2016
Metro in Moscow;Amasing. They are huge. Coming frequently. And the stations are wonderfull. You buey a ticket and you can go all dar long if you do not go out and keep doing connections.There is a guided visit, but you can do it on your own;5;April 25, 2016
Grand stations;I had read about Moscow's grand metro station, but was totally unprepared for the visual onslaught! Truly impressive. Mosaic, sculptures , ornate lighting - all make for a surreal atmosphere - somewhat of a cross beaten a museum and a 70s movie set. Smolenskaya and arbatskaya are definitely worth visiting.;5;April 25, 2016
Moscow Metro is a place not to miss.;Underground stations decoration are stunning. Each station is different.  For tourist, try to avoid rush hours.;5;April 25, 2016
Super!;spread across 200 stations,Moscows underground rail system is a tribute to soviet engineering and new Russian efficiency, with trains running every 90 seconds.;5;April 24, 2016
Clean and efficient;Very cool spaces., lots of artwork, clean and efficient. Only complaint is there aren't many directions in English. A must see even if you don't need to use the M to get around.;5;April 24, 2016
Worth the subway ticket!;In most cities around the world the visiting of the subway network doesn't rank very high!,However in Moscow this is almost in essential part of your trip if you really want to see the history and the beauty the Moscow has to offer.So by an underground ticket and spend a good couple of hours visiting different stations to see the simply stunning architecture and designs that are shown.London underground has a lot to learn from this stunning city!;5;April 24, 2016
Loved the 2 Billion dollar metro;I grew up in NY and so I am familiar with the metro and have also traveled extensively throughout Europe. This place is an attraction everyone should see. Its made out of granite and marble. The murals are superb. The trains however, move very quickly, so hold on.;5;April 23, 2016
A must. With a good guide or written guide;It is so surprising and mind blowing!Don't miss it!Hard to believe these stations were built in the 1930's and are in such great shape.The stories behind them are very interesting!;5;April 23, 2016
A reason to visit Moscow;Every station a unique and different style museum. ..from the ceiling to the floor and the walls. ..the sculptures and the hand touch in some of them for good luck. .Even the ventilation covers are part of the history art..Unfortunately no English signs. ..Nowhere.;5;April 23, 2016
Moscow Metro;Was recommended to do this as the metro is an art in itself with incredible murals, lights and even mosaic.  Once again we used urban travellers as a guide and it was excellent.  Saw a lot more than if we had done it on our own;5;April 21, 2016
Leningrad Station to Red Square;We took the subway from Leningradskya Station to Red Square, 4 stops.  The trains are very crowded and the stations while architecturally beautiful down at the platform are dirty.  Very inexpensive at 30 Rubles.;3;April 21, 2016
Fast and furious!;The Moscow metro moves very quickly so hang on tight. There's free wi-fi, and tickets can be purchased by way of a disposable smart card. Bring a map with you, as the station names are fairly confusing if English is your only language.It's a cheap, safe and fast way to travel around Moscow.;4;April 21, 2016
Gigantic and Art Deco Style;Very impressive Metro Stations. Start from Komsomoskaya station - The red line and followed the anti-clock wise to the next station on the brown ring line.;5;April 21, 2016
Some kind of a vast museum placed in the bowels of Moscow underground !;That is a way of transport in Moscow,  we had used most of all. Of course we transferred ourselves also by buses, tramcars, taxis but when we wanted to do it fast and efficiently our choice had fallen on Moscow subway lines. This Moscow Metropolitan System is one rapid transit system that serves the Moscow City itself and neighbouring towns of Krasnogorsk, Reutov and Kotelniki.It was opened in 1935 and first started with one line and 13 stations and now it is a huge transport complex of the total route length of 333 km and with 200 stations. We had seen mostly the underground sections of the metro system, but there is also, above the ground zero level, lines.Beside this, some stations are situated rather deep underground, one of them,even to the 74 meters beneath the ground.And to tell only about the everyday crowds in the metro stations and the metro trains, that carry each day a 7 to 9 millions people.The interior, that is, the view of some stations or their decoration is above all expectations. It is a truly extraordinary art work that was applied at the times on the walls, ceilings, generally the vaults, on the columns and other architectural elements presented here in the depths of the Moscow subterranean. I just want to stress on this occasion the most beautiful metro stations, we saw in the Moscow Metro and those are the Mayakovskaya and Kiyevskaya stations.For us it was really some kind of the feast we didn't meet so often in our lives.;5;April 18, 2016
Underground Palaces;Hard to believe these places used to be underground bunkers.  Found each metro station very interesting with different features.;5;April 18, 2016
wonderfull and efficient;The metro in Moscow is nice. Every station is special. We did a tour of two hours just for one ticket. Some stations are just nice; others tell a lot about (communistic) history. The metro is very efficient. Every 3 minutes you can take metro. Fast and you can reach most places in the city.;5;April 17, 2016
Moscow or St Petersburg;When I used to live in St P I always thought subway is very beautiful there. Yes, it's very beautiful for St P, but firstly I'm sure Moscow's subway is much more expressive! Look at those all huge and so high vestibules which bring to you extraordinary emotions and beautiful meaning. Unfortunately, there is not so much high speed tubes but it looks very nice. Go to Delovoi Centr or Kiyevskaya;5;April 16, 2016
Very Cool!!;For a country whos economy has been hit...you would recognize it.Efficient, clean, regular, staffed, a very cool metro system. A ring line system with different lines taking you out of the center to different destinations. Nice to see the area staffed by security in their cool uniforms. Careful...on entering Moscow English is even more rare than St Petersburg. There are info desks who are happy to help and do speak English so remember to get all the info you need in advance as Russian commuters who speak English are few and far between.;5;April 16, 2016
A must see;I did not take the guided tour but the sub is a must see. A lot of magnificent halls with a lot of marbles and lights. The decorations are naive/realistic of the Soviet Era.  Basically these are pieces of history and propaganda.;5;April 16, 2016
More than just transportation.;These metro stations are works of art. The stations are like museums showcasing Russian culture. Filled with marble walls, bronze statues and mosaics, they are a feast for the eyes.;5;April 13, 2016
Beautiful and efficient;The Moscow metro is a working piece of art. Every station is different and in the older parts, was built to reflect the buildings above. Under the Bolshoi theatre, the station has large theatre like rooms to exit from the trains, for example. The stone work  - marble, granite and others originally came from the Gulag were workers would mine for very little cost. Even some of the trains themselves are given over to more art than seats. Apart from being attractive, the metro is also efficient with each train arriving within 2 minutes of the last one. You can reliably be informed by a phone app, of your arrival time!;5;April 13, 2016
Super efficient. Good luck navigating it.;The Metro stations are gorgeous, the trains run every couple of minutes like clockwork, the price is right and it seems very safe. The only reason for not getting 5 stars is that there is very little in Latin letters for easy navigation for tourists. With the upcoming FIFA world cup, let's hope that the signage improves.;4;April 12, 2016
Uniqe metro!;When you go to metro you expect something ordinary and grayish. ..But visiting this metro is like visiting noisy and crowded museum. Every station is different.  The best are on the circular (brown) line. If you are in Moscow this is must see!;5;April 12, 2016
For transportation as well as sight-seeing!;The beautiful architecture of the metro makes it worth visiting, but it is also an easy way to travel through Moscow.;4;April 12, 2016
EASY EASY EASY;Use the metro while you are in Moscow. Easy to get around and very very cheap. The cost is approx 100 rubles (50p) to travel anywhere. Trains are very fast and very frequent. A very nice experience and very safe.;5;April 12, 2016
Efficient, clean, beautiful architecture on metro;We used the metro the entire week we were visiting Moscow, minus a couple of yellow taxis.  We found it quite easy to use with the help of a Russian map and an English map side by side.  We also took a 2 hour tour of the metro one day which was basically an interesting history lesson.  I highly recommend the tour to learn about the purposes of the architecture used to decorate each station!  The trains come about every 50 seconds and go up to 60 kph.  We saw a few homeless and one passed out lady (dressed well but determined drunk by other passengers).  This is common in any large city so didn't worry us.  Definitely use the metro over taking cars during busy driving times.  It is also only 50 RUB per trip, regardless of stops or transfers of lines.;5;April 10, 2016
Must do trip through Moscow;At USD0.30 for a ride, visit all the stations in the centre.Fabulous architectural experience.Great way to travel around the city. Get someone to help you get a rechargeable card - makes it really cheap.Impressive.;5;April 10, 2016
Crowded but actually easy to use;Used the Metro a couple of times during my stay in Moscow. The title say it was easy to use, but I was Lucky and had a colleague who is from Russia showing me around so with his assistance, well, it was easy. And some of the stations are really well decorated and a nice thing to see.Beware of Russian queue culture though, it's a little bit "the survival of the fittest";4;April 10, 2016
Amazing thing to see;It is a must to visit the metro. Take a metro and stop at the stations to see all the great paintings, lamps etc. The next metro comes every 2 or 3 minutes so you can travellers to the next station.;5;April 10, 2016
Efficient, clean, and Beautiful;Had no trouble getting around town on the Metro. Trains come very frequently!  Can be a bit crowded at times,  but if the train is too full for your liking you can go admire the incredible interiors while waiting for the next train. I don't recall any English on the signboards.;5;April 10, 2016
Works of Art;The Metro stations are a must see and many are incredibly beautiful. Built by Stalin, they feature different areas and battles such as the Ukraine and Napoleon. Even though the Metro moves 5 million people a day the stations are spotlessly clean and no graffitti.There is no English writing so you may need a guide.;5;April 9, 2016
Just great;Clean, efficient, beautiful architecture. They run so often that you aren't penalized for missing one ( like rechecking your itinerary). And with connections, Moscow is rapidly available.;5;April 8, 2016
Beatiful and practical;Get a prepaid Troika card and swipe in to see wonderful wonderful stations as well as getting from A to B.  We never waited more than about a minute for a train.  Moscow's large and we criss crossed it. And if a station looked particularly lovely from the carriage window, we'd hop off, have a look ,and catch the next train a minute later.  Lovely light fittings, several have mosaics, a lot of brasswork, sculptures, etc.  Was our highlight of Moscow.;5;April 8, 2016
Metro stations like mini-museums;The central stations of Moscow's metro are surprisingly beautiful. Since the subway is the most convenient way of travel in Russia's hectic capital, I assumed that it would be filthy and full of graffiti, like in New York. Yet I was so wrong! Many old stations in central Moscow have incredible interiors, decorations include marble, steel statues, fancy chandeliers, paintings, frescoes - I was amazed! It's like walking in underground mini-museums. Too bad that because of the metro's overall hustle and bustle I didn't get the chance to admire the works of Soviet heritage thoroughly, but if you have the time I advise stopping by Revolution Square station - ploshad revolutsyi in Russian and Komsomolskaya station (pardon my spelling).;4;April 8, 2016
Undoubtedly the world's finest public transportation system;Experience it; there's nothing comparable.  My favorite so far is Mayakovskaya Station; what is yours?;5;April 7, 2016
Great Metro System;Moscow has a wonderful, historic and easy to navigate metro system. Very inexpensive, 50 roubles per trip.;5;April 7, 2016
A place to visit in Moscow - the Metro!;My husband and I visited Moscow for our vacation in April 2016.The metro was absolutely amazing. A must see! Great architecture. Each stop is different and surprising. Look for the most beautiful 10 stops, there are a lot of suggestions online. If you have time, take a tour, I am sure there are interesting stories about each stop. We didn't take the tour, it was a bit expensive for our budget (I think it was around ~2000 rubles ~30 euro/per person), but I know there are tours and by the looks of the architecture there must be interesting stories.The Metro covers all Moscow. It is a huge structure, I mean it.At ground level you will see the red letter M shown on buildings. The names of the stops are not shown outside, you need to go inside to see which stop you are at.To enter you put the pass in the yellow circle at the turnstiles. Normally there are no barriers but I heard if you don't validate your pass the barriers close before you enter. Have not tried it. :)Trains come at a 1 minute interval all day. During evenings they come at around 3 minutes intervals. Open until 1 AM. The Metro in general is very clean and well taken care of.Some escalators are very steep and long.They play music in some of the tunnels and areas in general.I suggest a one week pass if you stay more than 3-4 days - very affordable and you can also use the public transport above ground with the same pass, but we didn't need to.Make sure you have a map that shows the stops in both Russian and English as most of the stops don't have English information so you need to be able to recognize the name of your stop by the Russian alphabet. Ask for a map of the metro and your hotel, they should have one or download the app Yandex Metro.The name of the last stop is shown on the trains. They sometimes show numbers too - I have no idea what those meant.They have a color system in place (lines are numbered too) but the colors are not always to the point - red might mean the pink or the orange line. In some stops you are also guided via circle drawings on the floor with numbers on them.Russian is read exactly as it is written so if you ask for your stop trying to read the names as they are in English, most people will understand and guide you to where you need to go. Russian people though most do not speak English tend to be helpful.;5;April 7, 2016
all the underground metros are great to see;i have been to many metros during my visit to moscow the best part i like is all the metro station are made i think before 1950 or may be before that. structures are still in a good shape and the entire station area looks like palace. unbelievable;5;April 7, 2016
Effective, clean and beautiful!;This is not only an effective and save transportation system but also artwork. For the people. For national pride. For example (Londoners have a look). Even mobile phones work. But do no try it out during rush hours.;5;April 7, 2016
Something to see;The metro stations in Moscow is truly something to see. Each station has it's own story and atmosphere. It's just a pity that they took down the most stunning mosaic work in most of the stations.;5;April 7, 2016
An Art Form In Itself;The Moscow Metro is unlike any underground I've ever experienced.  It was started in 1930 on Stalin's orders and opened in 1935.  Currently it has 130 stations and runs to 256km / 159 miles but is expanding.  As a tourist you don't just take the metro to get around, highly efficient though that may be, but to marvel at the foresight of: Making the underground tunnels vast, the corridors are really wide, so much so that some have seats where you can sit and chat with friends.  Its like a system of underground public spaces on a grand scale.Creating masterpieces of architecture in many of the stations - wonderful mosaics, soaring arches, statues and carvings that celebrate the great events in Russian History.The most elaborate stations are nearest to the centre of Moscow.To appreciate the stations at their best try to do a bit of research first and visit the most spectacular of them.  At times you'll feel that you are in a modern art museum.....But strangely the locals don't like to travel on the metro if they can drive as they think the metro is for the lower classes.  Having experienced the rush hour traffic in Moscow on many occasions I say take the metro and enjoy the scenery!;5;April 6, 2016
Best and most beautiful subway in the world!;WIfe and I have been to over 40 countries, most large capitals have subway systems. Nothing beats the one in Moscow, most beautiful, and one train every 1 to 2 minutes, incredible! We spent 3 hours exploring over 25 different stations. Amazing architecture and art, and so clean! Awesome!;5;April 5, 2016
The underground palace;Each of the stations in the central Moscow is the example of fine craftsmanship. They build them in such a way that you don't feel they are just underground stations. They are unique and beautiful. Even the lighting in each station is kept unique. I really loved it.;5;April 5, 2016
tube journey tour;the underground in moscow was built for the people. the stations actually change for each stop , it is as though a different architect has been awarded each station. well worth doing a 10 station ride and stopping at each one.;5;April 5, 2016
interesting;old and interesting place ! try to visit and go there and use it for going other places ! like museum !;4;April 5, 2016
Reliable;The trains come reliably and cover a substantial amount of space. It never seems you are far from the nearest Metro station. Of course, Moscow has some of the more beautiful stations of the major world cities -- plenty of murals and ornate architecture. I would highly recommend learning to read the Russian alphabet, as it can be difficult to know how to get to a connecting line because the signs are entirely in Russian. Navigating the maze of stations may be difficult otherwise.;4;April 5, 2016
Not bad;Subway is very clean and beautiful. Some stations are like art! I never thought that design of subway can be taken so seriously.;5;April 4, 2016
Historical and traditional metro;In China Metros  are more new ,faster and  more safe and of course modern . In Moscow are wothy as atistic and historical;4;April 3, 2016
World Heritage;The Metro is one of the most beautiful in the world (at least the stations). Go to Mayakovskaya and Abartskaya which are outstanding. The deepest one being Park Pobedy.The metro itself is the most on time in the world...coming every 30 to 180 seconds...depending on the hour;5;April 3, 2016
Massive network;12 Lines , 200 stations and the arteries of a bustling moscow. This is the most amazing Metro network i have been through. Outsiders might find it slightly diffificult initially as some of the older stations have name of station in Russian only, however with a translator app like yandex or google it dosent take much time to figure your ways out. Be wary to travel at night in some of the far way metro stops alone better avoided for obvious reasons.All in all there is history here, great place to click pictures in some of these stops.;5;April 3, 2016
The stations are museums!;The architecture and variety alone are enough to recommend the Metro - and make sure to pay attention to detail. Going off hours is one way to marvel at how ornate some of these are.;4;April 2, 2016
A type of transportation that became an attraction;Even though there are many more passengers now in Moscow subway than it can accommodate with comfort for everyone, it is still the fastest and most efficient transport in Moscow. For a foreign tourist it's a must - many stations are much more beautiful than "historic" centers in some non-Russian cities I've been to :-). Couple of tips: 1. Don't go to subway with the excursion goal during rush hour. 2. When your raise your eyes to the ceiling, hold your purse tightly and in front of you (the same advice is valid during your trip in a wagon).;5;April 2, 2016
Beautiful, fascinating and it works;The Moscow metro is often called a museum and it's true. In London you squirrel from line to line through tunnels, in Moscow you stroll through long halls with marble floors lit by chandeliers worthy of any palace. The metro itself is efficient, quick and clean.;5;April 2, 2016
Most beautiful/interesting decorated stations in central Moscow;This was one of my favourite sights in Moscow.  Anyone can see the beauty of some downtown Metro stations for the price of a single ticket (50 roubles).  Of course more expensive guided tours are also available.I was told that until several years ago, taking photos in the stations was not permitted.  Good thing that has changed now since there are many beautiful or interesting things to photograph: stained glass, statues, mosaics, ceilings, marble, etc.Unless you choose to research each station in advance, a simple way to see highlights is to get on the Brown Line (#5), which is the circle line around central Moscow.  Then just get off at each station and see if there is something worth photographing or looking at closer.  For example, there is one stop with bronze statues inside each archway.  Notice that some people will stop and rub spots on some statues (e.g. a dog's snout) for good luck!  Hence those spots look golden vs. the bronze colour of the rest of the statue.  Continue to wherever you wish to go afterwards.Tips: (1) If you don't have a hard copy Metro map (I never saw any available for pick up) or one downloaded from a website, simply take photos of the large maps in each station for reference when needed.(2) Also, note station names in Cyrillian so you can match these to English directions you may have.(3) When figuring out which direction you need to go from a station, look at the Cyrillian signage above each track, which tells you upcoming stations.(4) To change lines at one of many interchange stations (for 11 lines), follow signage overhead or on the floor, noting both Line # & colour!  Some lines at some stations are accessed via escalators (NO elevators) while some are accessed via stairways and hallways.(5) Service was very frequent during the hours I rode the Metro between 6:40 AM and 10 PM.  Typically busy throughout the day, especially crowded at rush hour, however just wait for the next train in ~2 minutes if the first train is too full or you are unsure of your direction.(6) With so many stops on 11 lines, chances are you can get to where you want to go without walking too far.(7) Single use tickets are 50 roubles.  My Moscow Greeter guide also had me buy an unlimited usage, 24-hour card for ~250 roubles, from which I could have received a 50 roubles refund if I had remembered to return the card after my last use on my way to the airport.;4;April 2, 2016
Wow;A lot more elegant than the strain stations in Australia that's for sure. Metro is a great way to get about. It takes a little to get use to though. Plus every stop has beautiful architecture.;3;April 1, 2016
Amazing;As far as the Metro itself, it's a great transport system: reliable, quick, and gets you to most places pretty efficiently (especially in the center of the city).But of course when you think of the Moscow Metro, you aren't just thinking of transportation. Some of the stations--quite a few, really--are incredible. They're beautiful, historic, endlessly fascinating. The Metro is absolutely one of my favorite parts of the city. You can simply appreciate it as you see it, of course. Or you can learn more, take a tour, etc.--it's even more interesting when you know more details. There are original works of art all throughout the system, as well as relics of historic buildings and other signs of historic times. If you do nothing else in Moscow, do this.;5;April 1, 2016
It's OK.;I expected more; I think it is a little over rated in my opinion.  A pleaseant experience nevertheless.  I think for the world cup in 2018; they should really invest in good information signs with the different platforms.  Tried my best and got it after one mistake going the wrong way.  People i thought were quite helpful to navigate you around if you don't know where to go.;4;April 1, 2016
Amazing and much easier to navigate than expected;Bright, clean, safe, beautiful.  I'd downloaded the Yandex Metro app which was very helpful, and learned the cyrillic alphabet so I'd know which side of the tracks to board from.  Besides that, everyone we ultimately had to ask for help from was kind, friendly and happy to assist.  Never did we feel uncomfortable or unsafe on any of the lines.;5;March 31, 2016
Palaces under the ground;I just have to say waw. The depth of these tunnels was breath taking. Architecture was fabulous. Mosaic works was amazing. Each station was different. We visited more that 7 stations. And the stories behind each is great. I was shocked to know that it was used as bunkers during the war.;5;March 30, 2016
It is not Metro, it is a museum!;Take two houres to visit about 10 Metro satation and to fill the history of the metro in Moscow. use the station in the brown line, the ring to see the most beutiful stations.;5;March 30, 2016
Must see and use;The Moscow metro you have to use and visit like a museum. Each station has special charms and it definitely is the easy and showing way to get around in this metropolitan city of Moscow. Cheap as well as safe and fast. Luv it;5;March 30, 2016
Stunning;Possibly not the easiest metro to navigate as you have to have an idea of Cyrillic script to successfully find the right stations etc but the ceilings, chandeliers,wall reliefs etc are beautiful.;5;March 30, 2016
Recent visit;What a place!. This is one is the easiest Metro systems to navigate around as well as having some stunning station architecture. tickets are very cheap from the station staff.;4;March 30, 2016
Stunning;Firstly, the trains are super efficient, you never wait longer than 2 minutes for the next train to arrive. And it only costs 50 roubles to ride anywhere in Moscow. Secondly, virtually every station is in Cyrillic only. So be brave. Get a map with the Cyrillic on it and then match the names. It's fun! We got lost a couple of times but we found everyone so helpful. Very few people can speak English but they're great at pointing you in the right direction. Thirdly, the stations are works of art in themselves. We spent a fun afternoon doing our own guided tour of some of the more famous ones. Amazing mosaics, bronzes, stained glass.;5;March 30, 2016
Masterpiece;The metro system is a work of art - almost every station is decorated in an artistic manner. Puts some London tube stations to shame.;4;March 29, 2016
Gorgeous;Simply the best metro I have used.Completely different to the tube system that I use on a daily basis in London.The tube system in Moscow is almost like visiting a museum in London. There is a real sense of pride and beauty within Moscow Metro. It's incredibly clean and offers free wifi. Being the typical ignorant tourist, and not knowing how to speak, read or understand Russian language,  I  had great difficulty understanding the Metro and managed to get lost a few times however people was happy to help (once they understood me).;5;March 29, 2016
Take a translator! ;);Very nice architecture at 40 out of 200 stations but the texts are besides the exit signs only in Russian The trains themselves are very old and extremely loud but drive every 30-90 seconds!;4;March 29, 2016
I stroked the dogs nose;You will need a good camera as their is so much to see. You will also have to be patient as the stairlifts take so long, but they do have free wi-fi. Just keep your eyes open as I missed a couple of things but luckily I went on the metro everyday. Also very clean. The only issue I had I could not work out which entrance to exit, which meant a lot of extra walking;4;March 29, 2016
Take a tour yourself;At only 50 rubles a trip, take a tour yourself and enjoy hoping out of trains and seeing the most wonderful platforms and public areas - mosaics, painting, statues, sculptures.;4;March 29, 2016
One of its kind;One of the most decorative metro in the World. Stations are very beautifully decorated. Metro trains are old.  Worth spending time.;5;March 29, 2016
Piece of masterpiece;This metro is awesome. Visit AT LEAST most beautiful stations like Kievskaja, Park Pobedy, Ploschad Revolucii, Beloruskaya... If you are interested in the history of metro and how it works and how it was build visit Metro museum at Vystavochnaya station (free). Also I recommend you Yandex Metro app - it will make traveling easy for you.;5;March 29, 2016
Don't Miss to get ride Moscow Metro;Moscow metro station is like museum, it's very beautiful like art gallery or entrance of great palace so I recommend it will be worthwhile to be there.;4;March 29, 2016
Hungarian team /2015.10.20 Moscow Metro;Great travel,very nice place.For my hungarian team very interesting.For tourist ,parents and children ,too recomended !;5;March 28, 2016
Cheap, accessible and decorative!;We spent quite a lot of our 4 days in Moscow in the metro. Some stations were really majestic and the history behind them is very interesting.;5;March 28, 2016
Clean and a bit old fashioned;It was always clean, trains going incredibly often, very cheap and with many interesting metro stations. But also a bit scary, because they were giving warnings about possible terror attacks all the time.;4;March 28, 2016
A must and not just for tourists!;After my Moscow Free Tour (walking tour) I embarked on my Metro Tour with the same, excellent guide Elena. As I said in my MFT review, she is great; brimming with historical knowledge, anecdotes and humor. The tour was a small group; a few tourists plus recent transplants to Moscow who needed a quick overview of the Metro. We stopped at seven stations in all; from simple, classical architecture to those filled with rich, mosaic, artistry. Every station has a history and Elena described each in detail. This tour gave me the courage to ride the metro on my own! Also, when you are buying maps to Moscow streets/metro buy one in Cyrillic as well as your native language.;5;March 27, 2016
Saves more time for Moscow Metro!;Moscow metro is really too amazing. So communist style and this is my favourite attraction in Moscow.I stopped for around 10 stations and mainly on brown lines. But i know that there are more to explore yet i only have 2 days in Moscow. If you have limited time, just go for the brown circle line since the most amazing part was there.I expected to have more tourists taking photos in the platform, but actually only me was taking photos. But beware of your personal belongings cos there are so many people during rush hours.;5;March 27, 2016
even foreigner cannot go wrong;taking the opportunity and challenge to take the metro is most convenient, take care when taking underground passages (no English is provided). Beautiful setting with different stations;4;March 27, 2016
Beautiful but quite difficult to use it if you don't speak Russian;It is beautiful but quite difficult to move around using Moscow metro if you don't speak any Russian as there is no sings with English translation and signaling is a bit confused. Moreover, it's hard to ask for information because people run like crazy (just to mention that in St. Petersburg was generally easy to travel with subway). Some stations are worth a visit such as Kievskaya, Mayakovskaya, Ploshchad Revolyutsii, Teatralnaya, Smolenskaya (there are more but I haven't visited them).;3;March 27, 2016
Great interiors;The Soviets were rightly proud about the Moscou metro. Great stations, with Soviet references anywhere. A pity that for a tourist who does not know cyrillic writings it is very difficult to find your way there.;4;March 27, 2016
Worth to go by metro and visit;Visit as much stations as possible and be surprised. Not only the tiles are worth to see but also the people and the carriages. It is very warm inside. Some train stations work as connectors below the floor.;4;March 26, 2016
Easy to use;Easy to use extensive system. Buy card with20 trips at a time then give your card away if you do not use them all; meanwhile, you will feel free to zoom around the city exploring.;5;March 26, 2016
Such beautiful interiors you will find yourself looking up rather than ahead of you!;I braved the Moscow Metro for the first time this month. Top tip for other first time users is to download the Moscow Metro phone app - it will help you plan and navigate your way around the massive metro stations. These stops are filled with beautiful art and decor everywhere you look. Worth a visit even if you don't have a big journey planned. The tickets are inexpensive, with each journey being the same price where ever it is you chose to go. As a lot of the signs are still in Russian I found that if you are ever struggling to know where the exit is - look to the floor. They always have 'WAY OUT' written in English on the floors with an arrow pointing in the direction of the exit.;4;March 26, 2016
Some stations are beautiful;Moscows Metro has quict some history and you notice some interesting details if you pay some attention. Some stations have very long escalators as they used the Metro as air raid shelters in the war. Also some are very beautiful like Mayakovskaya, Komsomolskaya and Prospekt Mira. Check also out the bronz sculptures at Ploshchad Revolyutsii - it is believed that it brings luck if you rub the nose of the the dog accompanying a frontier guard. But today everyone is rubbing every sculpture so many parts are shiny ;);5;March 25, 2016
Art work;all stations look like a museum. Very artistic places with many things to see while you are waiting trains;5;March 24, 2016
Beautiful architecture and fast transport;The Moscow Metro is a super big network and each station has its own unique designs. Besides being the easiest way to get around, it's also an amazing place to see some of the architecture of Moscow. It is amazingly impressive, yet very straightforward and easy to use.;5;March 24, 2016
Look up at the Ceilings;You don't need to do a tour of the metro - you just need to research which stations to take the escalators down to (and my god those escalators are soooo steep) - we did about 4 stations within walking distance of central Moscow - and took loads of pictures - it was amazing and worth the vertigo feeling getting down to the bowels of the metro!!!;5;March 24, 2016
The most impressive metro I've ever been to;I knew Moscow's metro was beautiful but reality goes beyond fiction this time. No matter which station you are in your eyes will need to blink twice or thrice to actually realise that is for real. Majestic.;5;March 24, 2016
Most beautiful Metro/Subway/Undergroud in the world;As I'd tavelled a lot in my life I can say that this is the most Most beautiful and easy understandable Metro/Subway/Undergroud in the world! Don't be lazy and check the web on the top stunning stations and go see them. They are a masterpiece. And yeah, it can be sometimes stuffy and crowded and we don't have lavatories down there, so if you need one - take care of it before ;-);4;March 24, 2016
Far beyond better than many other europeans;The metro net is very densely. Many lines going everywhere in Moscow and Outskirts/ Suburbs. The frequency of trains is more than adequate. A minute only. One after one. Even late in the evening you have not to wait more than 3 minutes. There is safety. You feel it. Police is discreetly in every station. Sometimes they inspect backpacks. Officers are there to provide info and control traffic. Cleaners also. The architectural elements in every station are unique in the world. The only drawback is the signposts written only in Russian, but soon you are going to be familiar with it.;4;March 24, 2016
You have to see it;I am from Moscow. So I am very comfortable to use it. But if you are a foreigner, you have to get some guidelines about safety and how to navigate it or just take a guided tour. It's gorgeous and such an awesome preview of city life, especially if your style of tourism is merging into life of locals.;5;March 23, 2016
Great way to get around the city;Although I cannot speak Russian, I took a few minutes to learn the alphabet and that was all I needed to make my way around the city on the metro on my own. The color coding of the different lines makes it easy. One tip: If it is in the evening and everyone else gets out at one stop, you should get out, too. It means that train is done for the day. :);5;March 23, 2016
Moscow Metro;They have the most beautiful metro stations i have ever seen.If you have time you must make a round with the metro and it cost only 50 ruble a trip it s like 70 cent euro.;5;March 23, 2016
Remarkable;It is iconic place to visit once you are in Moscow, didn't expected to see anything like this, it is beyond my expectation even through it is so crowed, but the crowed could not close the beauty of the architecture and stunning with the year they were build which last for long like Old lady but still beautiful as the same day she was teenager!!!;5;March 21, 2016
Must Try!;almost the World's oldest metro!Mosocw Metro is one of the most convinient and cheapest way to travel for tourists and locals alike.The metros arrive in record speed and are on time. It has wonderful paintings, sculptures, antiques on show at the metro stations.;5;March 20, 2016
easy to commute;just 50 roubles to enter the metro system. very easy to get around if you use common sense. lots of suggestions in travel books indicating which metros are the best. a train comes around every 45 seconds very efficient way to get around moscow. bear in mind that all metro stations are written in cyrillic writing not english.;5;March 19, 2016
the Moscow metro is an architectural and cultural landmark;The Moscow metro is an architectural and cultural landmark. Many stations made by sketches of famous artists and reflect different stages of Russian history. To see it better on weekends or afternoon on weekdays. Compared to other large cities it is quite safe and comfortable. The Moscow metro is affordable. Here you can see people from different social classes and cultural communities. Don't be surprised if next to you will be a famous person. Don't miss this attraction. Visiting the Moscow metro, you get an idea not only about the city, but living in Moscow people, as well as numerous guests of the capital.;4;March 18, 2016
A must when visiting Moscow;Two tips from my side. First, go ride the Metro on your first day. It is well worth your time in Moscow to know how it operate. Do the Blue line, as the coaches are newer and have an electronic board to show you where you are and where you are going.Secondly, get the Yandex app from Playstore. It is well worth having it. You can, in English, input your start and finish stations. Then you change the language setting to Russian so you can recognise the names. Once you have done a line, and maybe even a transfer to another line, you are set up to explore Moscow even further.As for the stations, get off at each station and take photos. There are some breathtaking stations out there.Ticket prices are cheap as chips. 650 Rubles for 20 trips. Riding the subway all day might only use one of these, but remember, you have to get out to eat something or go to the toilet.;5;March 18, 2016
Filled with history;The Moscow metro is big, you can move about easily, payment system is simple and the stations are beautiful. This is a great safe and very cheap way to move around Moscow, make sure you spend time to look at how is is built.;5;March 18, 2016
Beautiful stations from a bygone eta;Beautiful stations which are emblazoned with Soviet era architecture, statues and art. Clean, safe and very easy to use. I recommend that if you don't speak Russian, make sure that you know the spellings in Cyrillic and pronunciations so that you can identify stops. When the train leaves a station they announce the next station and when they arrive they state the station. The Metro maps on the trains have red LED strips which show you where you are - it's quite easy. I much preferred the Metro to taxis.You buy journeys - just hold up your fingers; it's about 50p for any journey, much cheaper than London and Paris.Very safe and punctual and links in with the rail stations - usually a short walk.My new favourite underground - they should do touristic tours of the best Metro stations.;5;March 18, 2016
Beautiful;Well worth a visit to see the beautiful stations. Google the best, plot on a map and off you go. You pay for the journey not where you're going so as long as you don't go out you can travel around as much as you like. All for 50p! Print a map from the metro site before you go as the map from the hotel and the map in our guide book were slightly different. This and the fact that the translations to English can be slightly different meant it was trickier to get round than we thought it would be. We travel the underground everyday so thought the metro would be easy but it can take a little while to find your feet as they use the colours of the lines to mark platform numbers and stops along the line. The stations aren't always clearly visible from the train either so count the stops before you get on for the trains without the current position lights. We found the markings on the floor the easiest way to navigate to other lines. Where stations link in each station on the different lines are given their own individual name. So it's not like Baker Street where they all come together under one name. Something to remember when navigating. The stations are beautiful, even for those of us who aren't train enthusiasts so well worth a visit and don't forget to touch the nose of the dog statue for luck!;5;March 18, 2016
Best Subway, Metro, Underground system in the world hands down!!!!;Moscow subway system has always been the most reliable, clean, efficient underground transport system since the days of Josef Stalin! And to top it off in the modern era it also provides wifi. I have to mention that's it warm and dry in the winter and nice and cool in the summer.  The Moscow subway system has the most glamorous stations in entire world especially on the loop/circle line.I very much enjoy traveling via this transport system when I visit Moscow Russia on Buisness as the car service above ground is constantly stuck due to extremely high volume of traffic! While here I can simply relax and either get some work done, or just get to interact with the locals and people that visit the great mother Russia  Awesome awesome awesome underground system!!Go Russia  I highly recommend that you visit this amazing city at least once in your life and see for yourself what a spectacular sight the Moscow subway is.;5;March 17, 2016
Best metro in the world;I love taking the metro in Moscow, it is always a surprise when you enter to see how deep yougo, or how splendid everything is set. Metro is not not only super efficient, but beautiful. And it s worth visiting !;5;March 17, 2016
Underground palaces;Absolutely worth visiting. There are a lot of stations which look more like palaces. You should at least see the stations on the circle! Better in the middle of the day.;5;March 17, 2016
Nice Metro;Nice stations with architectural design. Really difficult to orientated if you do not know cyrilic alphabet.;5;March 17, 2016
Moscow Metro Tour;Really worth taking the English guided tour of the metro.  Full of fascinating facts and the most astounding architecture/artwork.  We had a young historian as our guide who was not shy about discussing past and present Russian history which was very enlightening!  Definitely worth taking this tour.;5;March 16, 2016
Amazing design but overcrowded at peak hours;Stations strongly recommended to visit: Novoslobodskaya, Komsomol'skaya (round line), Mayakovskaya, Poloshchad' Revolutzii. All were designed in Soviet Union period, a lot of specific art: mosaic, stained-glass, sculptures.Be careful getting in or out the trains: people may be too fast and active living the car.You do not need to push the button to open the door - it opens at every station automatically.;4;March 16, 2016
The best in the world!;Nowhere in the world you can find such beatiful station. The stations of the old Moscow metro (inside the circle line) are more like underground palaces!!! It is nice and simple to use, there are many stations where you can change the line to get where you need faster. But there are to many people almost all day long even on holidays...;5;March 15, 2016
Amazing architectural value;Each station is different and let you feel the previous Stalin era. Train is very old but somehow together with stations it give some special feeling to you.;5;March 15, 2016
Impressive place to visit;Even remote stations are beautiful while centrally located and old stations are reminiscent of museums. You can start from Novokuznetskaya which is full of mosaics.;5;March 15, 2016
Very good;A convenient way to communicate in a city!With high distance it is very convenient!!!To communicate from 1 part of the city to another!Better than using a car ;);5;March 15, 2016
Crowded but beautiful;old stations within the brown circle line are pieces of art, almost every one of them, and with some history behind, too. Better use some navigational aid if you don't read cyrillics, so, as english navaid is not always present.;4;March 15, 2016
Amazing;Try to download de app of the metro in English lenguage!! :) the first time it will not be easy, but you will enjoy it a lot!;5;March 15, 2016
One of the most beautiful sights of the the city;Tourist agencies shamelessly take +10e to tour the metro, but  you can visit it by yourself and to pay around 1.5e how much is the ticket for the ride. I bought a small guide to the metro stations and started to go around .. every day 2-3 while I'm going to visit the city.;5;March 15, 2016
History at a glims;Try to use several stations but take a translator  for there is not even one word in English (like the rest of the city;5;March 14, 2016
Beautiful art pieces;We loved our nighttime Moscow metro tour. We toured the metro stopping along the way in several stations. Each station was like a different museum. The lights, frescos, paintings, mosaics, and sculptures were breathtaking. We could not believe the condition of the metro and the cleanliness. There was not a piece of trash in sight. I would love to spend more time exploring the metro stations.;5;March 13, 2016
I love Moscow metro;Moscow metro is not only public transportation, it's a story, history and art. You can spend hours visiting different stations ( especially in the center ) and looking at mosaics, pictures and statues.;5;March 13, 2016
speechless!;The most amazing metro i have ever seen!! It is like an underground art museum which you have to visit to understand its magnificence.;5;March 11, 2016
You will never be late;The Moscow metro is one of the most efficient metros I've been on, although some of the trains are dated, but these are starting to be upgraded on certain lines. A lot of the stations are under going renovation at the moment, but that is having little effect on the efficiency of the trains. Trains are nearly every 30-60 seconds after each other!! You will be amazed at some of the stations, the architecture is something. Although I haven't used every line, the brown line has some amazing underground stations. It is also very cheap to travel, just remember when you go to buy a rail card you will more than likely need to use translate or speak Russian if you can!;4;March 11, 2016
Amazing Feat of Engineering;A few caveats, I grew up in a city with no metro and only have experienced metros in the cities I have visited, and secondly, the only reason I don't give the Moscow Metro 5 stars is that some of their trains are apparently from the stone age, and it is so dang busy!  That being said, this is an amazing system.  Although not ubiquitous (when I stay in Moscow the nearest station is almost a km away) it is very comprehensive.  I had always heard rumors that it was the cleanest system in the world, and although I don't have the experience to comment on that, it is very clean.  Some of the stations are like museums, or works of art.  You do need to have an understanding of Cyrillic to know where you are going though, as there is no English signage.;4;March 11, 2016
Magical metro;Some of these stations are almost cathedral like in size and beauty and a must see if you like that sort of thing. From the dizzying heights of some of the deepest escalators I've ever seen to the bronze works of Ploschad Revolutsii, the beauty of Kievskaya but the individuality of most. A nightmare to navigate because there are so few signs about the station so you need to count the number of stops but it really isn't a problem if you overshoot just go on to the next station cross to the adjacent platform and go back. A flat fare in Feb 16 was 50 rubles and so long as you dont step outside any station you can travel all day, no such thing as zones. One thing to take note Russia does not plan for disabled, so access is virtually non existent.;5;March 9, 2016
A sightseeing attraction in Moscow;The stations are great decorated and it is worth seeing all the statues. A little hard to figure out how it works at first, but the people working there are very helpful. Fastest way to get around in Moscow and it is secure.;4;March 9, 2016
Good cheap travel;This is a must if you need to Explore Moscow fully.The 5 Central Stations are artistically done.Very beautiful with wall paintings and architectures.The lighting on the top is done by Chandeliers which is very classy and rare in other big city Metros across the world.;4;March 9, 2016
Easy to get aroung;For a tourist it was very easy to use and was close to all tourist sites. One fare where ever you went.;5;March 8, 2016
UNDERGROUND ART MUSEUM;THIS IS NOT TO BE MISSED:Cities need subways to move the populous around cheaply and efficiently.Most cities try to make theirs attractive but Moscow is the benchmark for any subway system to present itself.Not only is this a state of the art transportation system with the most modern conveniences to get people in, out and about but the stations are art museums unto themselves.Each stop has a different theme, with art work hanging on the walls to marble statues standing watch as the throngs pass by.Go to the web site for particulars but my recommendation is to start at one end and tour this unusual museum in both directions.You just will not believe that such items are in the public’s domain and only for the price of a ticket.;5;March 8, 2016
Must see wonder of Moscow - the most beautiful metro system in the world;The Moscow Metro is a wonder of the world - take a few hours to ride around, getting off at each station in the center to have a closer look. Important Russian architects and artists were commissioned to design and decorate many of the metro stations. Those in the city center and on the brown line are some of the most beautiful. Among those that are particularly noteworthy are Belorusskaya, Ploshchad Revolutsii, Kievskaya, Barrikadnaya, Prospekt Mira and perhaps the most beautiful of all—Komsomolskaya.;5;March 8, 2016
Underground railway or museum ?;The vaulted ceilings, ornate architechture, chandeliers, lighting sconces and bronze statues make the Moscow Metro feel more like a museum than an underground railway. Trains are reliable and quick and very very cheap! Beware rush hour however - riding the Metro in rush hour is definitely a contact sport!;5;March 8, 2016
THE MAJESTIC AND ORNATE METRO;Moscow metro is very old and big metro You can commute anywhere as it has as any as 200 stations and 12 lines When I went in July 2015, it had completed 80 years of operation.Since the name of the stations are written in Russian it is quite difficult to understand and identify but every station has a characteristic no and color.which is easier to understand and remember. Very few stations have their name written in English.Stations are very deep,more than 200 feet deep and the long elevators seem to be endless.I was told that Stalin had ordered to build the stations so gorgeously that they display the glory of Communist World.In fact, stations are very big  majestic in look with statues, mosaic patterns and many arches and later on, the same tradition was followed.Fare is same for any number of stations irrespective of the distance. Due to language problems, it takes a few  days to get to know the system.With the help of a metro map, you can move by seeing the color and number of your desired destinationto..;4;March 7, 2016
Artistic and Historical experience;The Moscow Metro is not only about transportation and convenience, it is also a representation of Arts and History in Moscow and Russia. Structure: There are paintings and sculptures in the stations, such as in Teatralnaya station, and the walls are beautiful and grand. The structure itself is already a tourist point. For travellers, it may be a good idea to spend half of the day for travelling by Metro to enjoy the spectacular differences between different Metro stations. Train: There is no (not much) English sign inside the compartment therefore non-Russian speakers should remember where to leave the train by memory or count how many stops the metro has passed. Fare: The single ticket for each travel is cheap at all. The ticket machine offers both English and Chinese description and is user-friendly for non-Russian speakers.Security: There are policemen in every metro station (at least in every stop I have been).They are helpful if travellers get lose and want for information. [My experience: After I arrived at the gate, I didn't have a new single ticket for my upcoming ride. Therefore, I went to ask one policeman standing beside the gate for the information of the ticket machine's location. At first, he had no idea what I had said because I spoke English. Later, he put out his phone and asked me to type my request in Google Translate so that he could understand and help me. ];4;March 6, 2016
Amazing metro;Visiting metrostations in Moscow is really an event. Some of them are real pieces of art. and its amazing to see how good this metrosystem works. Very efficiënt and the russian people are very disciplined in the metro.;5;March 6, 2016
Architecture and Art at 50 feet below the ground;If there is one thing about the Metro in Moscow apart from the fact that it is literally the best way to travel around Moscow, is the beauty of each station.These stations are by themselves a work of art and would be worthwhile exploring them as an attraction. Also if you are an history buff, do not miss out the stations around the golden circle;5;March 5, 2016
The Metro;This must be the most intresting metro in the world, the architecture is absolutely breath taking. before leaving Moscow go and see for your self;5;March 4, 2016
Train Station? I've seen shopping malls that don't look this good.;If you ride to central district - Red Square - you will end up here. Most elegant train station I have ever seen and extremely clean.;5;March 4, 2016
Good rainy/snowing activity;We visited Moscow at the end of winter and when it snowed we headed underground. The metro is a unique object within Moscow, both key transport hubs and pieces of art. Visiting some of the central stations provided a visual sensation that was delightful.;4;March 4, 2016
Best tranportation system in the town;If you want visit Moscow, there is no other option then do it via local metro system. You find metro station marked with red M letter. You buy ticket in ebery station (multiple ticked recommended). You can change as often you wish/needs. Do not forget to enjoy metro architecture and make few pictures!;4;March 3, 2016
lifting experience;For all non Russian travelers , take my advise and use the Moscow Metro system , the stations are very clean and decorated , it feels very secure thanks to all the cameras all over and it is quite friendly even if you never learned Russian. All stations are marked with latin letters and the map needs only few minutes to get familiar with. Prices are redicilously cheap and when it is not the rush hour you will find friendly people helping you out ... just show them your destination on the map. give it a chance and you will be amazed on how nice it can be. I challange the directors of Manhattan , London and Paris Metro to visit and learn .;5;March 3, 2016
Amazing metro stations;I have never seen such very clean and organized metro´s - amazing pictures downstairs and very deep located...it is a must to see in Moscow - I always felt very save..;5;March 3, 2016
Plan your visit!;Moscow metro is huge and usually very crowdy. To enjoy your trip as a tourist, plan your visit. First, choose the hours when it's less crowdy. It's either late in the evening, after 21hs, or on Sunday. In the middle of the day, like at 15 and till 17, it might be not that bad either.Second, remember the rules of the crowed city (we are 13 million people!): don't block the way! On the escalator, never stand on the left side unless you want to be pushed by those that are in a hurry.Third, make a list of the stations you want to see. It is impossible to see all of them, and not worth it unless you are an arquitect who sees much more than people usually do. I'd recommend to visit the stations following the lines. These are my recommendations (from north to south):Red line: Kropotkinskaya, Vorobievy Gory, Troparevo, Rumiantsevo, Salaryino.Green line: Sokol, Mayakovskaya, Avtozavodskaya.Dark blue line: Ploschad Revolutsii, Arbatskaya, Park Pobedy, Slavianskiy bulvarBrown line (circular): Komsomolskaya, Taganskaya, Bielorusskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Prospekt mira. Orange line: VDNHaPurple line: Barrikadnaya, PushkinskayaGrey line: MendeleevskayaLight green: Dostoievskaya, Trubnaya, Sretenskiy bulvar. If you just have half an hour, you can limit the list to Arbatskaya (dark blue line), Ploschad Revolutsii (dark blue), Mayakovskaya (green), Slavianskiy bulvar (dark blue), Novoslobodskaya (brown-circular), Kropotkinskaya (red).The tickets: you just need to enter the metro once, there are no limitations on time. You can buy your ticket at the ticket office or at the ticket terminal (available in English!). No special ticket. You are free to take as many photos as you want, but don´t block the way.;5;March 3, 2016
Super efficiant way of transport;I must say I like the Moscow Metro - ok, it might be crowded at times, but... the speed and easyness makes it the best way to commute in Moscow. There is basically no time table, just enter the metro station and there will be a train for you in 45 seconds taking you anywhere in Moscow. Calculate three minutes per station, add two minutes if you want to change line and you know exactly when you will arrive at your destination.I am impressed!;5;March 2, 2016
Immaculate system with artistic stations;No where else have I seen such beautifully decorated subway stations.  Some escalators were longer than seeable elsewhere. Very clean.  Closed 01:00-05:30.;5;March 1, 2016
Magnificently Breathtaking  Metro;A visit to Moscow would not be complete without seeing at least a dozen of approximately 195 Metro Stations.  Each station's art reflects the era in which it was built commencing in 1935 and every one is so different.  Unbelievably beautiful.  Some features include: marble walls, high ceilings, grandiose chandeliers, marble or bronze statues, stained glass windows, tall pillars, countless mosaics some with precious stones. The Mayakovskaya Metro is so beautiful with its graceful columns that it is known as the 24 hour Soviet sky.  Every station is unique.  A tour guide is recommended for ease of changing lines.  This saves time too.;5;March 1, 2016
Underground art gallery;The Moscau metro is a complex system that the new visitor need to get acquainted to. For instance the same station might have two names, depending on the entrance or the line that it services. Stations are dedicated to certain subjects and are decorated accordingly, e.g. for lenin, the partizans, the farmers and workers etc. The trains run on a very tight schedule coming every minute. Tip: watch for pickpockets. You can spot them as they are just sitting on the stations near tourist groups doing simmingly nothing;4;March 1, 2016
Excellent means of transport;The Moscow metro definitely consider it one of the best in the world, reaches everywhere, it is cheap, each station is a museum, incredible, so if ready for an adventure because everything is in Russian, not English haha;5;February 29, 2016
Moscow metro;Well what can I say.......  if there were chandeliers like this in London then they would have been stolen or vandalised by now.  I just could not believe just how clean the metro was, lovely mosaic pictures, large lamps, shades and the air is so much cleaner than London. I was informed that every 20 minutes fresh air is pumped into the metro.  The train tubes were no different to others but it is the platforms that you need to visit. Our guide took us when it was less busy which meant that I could take photos without having to wait for people to move out of the way.;4;February 29, 2016
Stunning!!!!!;Amazing atmosphere, each station is different. A great place to wander round ant travel to different stops for people who appreciate architecture, history or just stunning sights.;5;February 29, 2016
The best metro I know;The first time I took the metro (again some years ago) I remember that we came down and just missed our train. 2 minutes later the next one arrived. It's supper quick, the best way to travel (over ground transport usually has massive traffic jams) and beautiful as well. At this moment, I believe there are even english maps. It's to say, maps with roman letters instead of cyrilic. Once you know where to go, the collors show the way fairly easy. You once pay to get in (50 roubles, about 60 eurocents) and can drive to the other side of Moscow. If you are in Moscow, it's a must do.;5;February 29, 2016
Must See!!! DIY Tour of Metro;You must do a tour of the Metro, it is simply fabulous!! It's easy to do yourself, simply download the app called Metro by Yandex, it is simply fantastic. It's lists the stations in English & Cyrillic script. When you get to the Metro station there are ticket machines with an English option to purchase tickets. You must have cash (small denominations). You can also purchase tickets at the касса window. (If you don't speak Russian just hold up your fingers for the number of rides you want) If you don't leave the stations then you can ride all day on one ticket. Highlight stations are: Komsomolskaya, Prospekt Mira, Novoslobodskaya, Belorusskaya, Mayakovskaya, Teatralnaya, Ploshchad Revolyutsil, Arbatskaya, Kievskaya, Park Pobedy.;5;February 28, 2016
The best in the world..;I have travelled by Metro all over the world, eastern and western world but nowhere I have found anything that comes any close to the Moscow Metro,,Art littered all over..such lovely architecture and beautifully maintained.. must travel and more than travel, soak the beauty of the station..;5;February 28, 2016
A trip back in time to the soviet era...;This subway system has to be one of the most unique in the world. First your journey back in time starts with a two story escalator carrying you down to a labyrinth of marble tunnels that will teleport you to the soviet era. these marble hallways lead to great halls where 1940s train cars rush in and rush out. some of the train cars even have original details from when they were first built, down to the details of handrails, seats and signage. all around you no one seems to notice how impressive it is because this is day to day moscow. in one station, huge marble statues honoring the russian oligarchs line the platforms and they are stoic and solid. FYI, if you cannot read russian/cyrillic you can still figure out your way on the subway by noticing the order for which cities appear. it can be tricky because some signs are not translated into their english names, and even then, they can be very similar looking. it's tricky navigating and listening to the stops so be prepared to make some mistakes and get lost. nevertheless we relied on the subway for 100% of our stay in moscow and it was a fun experience!;5;February 27, 2016
An underground museum!;Moscow metro is a piece of art. Especially stations on the radial line are full of nice architecture, statues, mosaics... Prospekt Mira is one of my favourites - magnificent imagery and it's also the deepest station in Moscow.They've just recently opened the 200th metro station and there are big plans for the future, including the second radial line. Metro in Moscow surely is one of the most efficient in Europe (and rather clean!);4;February 26, 2016
Rapid transport;You can use it, if you need to reach some places in Moscow and you don't have a lot of time to travel by car );5;February 25, 2016
Great thing to do in a raining day!;We wanted to do something cultural in Moscow but was raining so we decided to go around the metro following a top 10 metro stations list we had. The metro stations are enormous, beautiful and you can realize how Muscovite people care about the city. The metro and streets are always clean.The paints and mosaics and statues leave us with an amazing feeling of admiration for this nation that focus their ideal in protect the country and families. Many of them had reference to politician or army things, as soldiers, war, airplanes, and also flowers, people, etc.It is worthy the visit as is one of the most beautiful metro in the world.We took the list from the book "10 top things Moscow" in there you can find restaurants, places to visit, and of course the ten metro stations. We knew about some tours with a guide that explain things but we decided to do it ourselves as an adventure as was our first time together in the city. You can decide to take a tour or go around yourselves. But is definitely a must do in Moscow if you stay long enough. Enjoy your walk around and taking pics. :);5;February 25, 2016
many different ones;Take the metro and get off at every station. Every station is different!. Mosaic, statues,art deco etc. It's a little intimidating at first but I believe there's a English map. If you're staying in Moscow for a few days, it is worthwhile buying a ticket worth 8 or 10 rides. You can also use this ticket on the bus.;5;February 25, 2016
Beautiful examples of architecture;Visited five stations. The architectural features are technically amazing and visually stunning. Most have been painstakingly restored. Many countries could learn from this concept... Each station is different, each tells a different story. For a few roubles you can ride pretty much anywhere.Best done with a guide.;5;February 25, 2016
Plan your days so that you see the best of these!;Easy and user friendly the stations are works of art in their own right.  Plan a route that takes in several and just get off and on taking in the sights at each station....;5;February 24, 2016
Awesome!!!;Superb underground metro train network. Oldest one but most effective one! It's amazing functionality plus picturesque stations makes you speechless;5;February 24, 2016
Should try;Very cheap..you can visit all Moscow using the metro..great architecture..secure..if ur using the metro for the first time don go on rush hours..I takes you only one time to get use to it..also if u dnt read Russian or speak..get the handy application and ull be able to use the metro freely;5;February 23, 2016
Be Patient;Even if you can read Cyrillic letters, the metro can be daunting. Get a good map and give yourself plenty of time and be patient. Moscow is not taxi-friendly, and the metro IS your best bet for getting anywhere.;4;February 22, 2016
Could Be The World's Best Metro;How come I never knew that the Moscow Metro is so amazing? It was a real surprise. It's a great way to get around the city (either count the stops or ask another passenger which station you're at because the signage isn't very helpful) and there are so many wonderful stations. Try a station tour, there's one included in the Lonely Planet Guide.;5;February 22, 2016
Art museum or Metro?;Metro in Moscow, you must see. It is like art museum, or art gallery. Everything is clean. All lights work.;5;February 22, 2016
Moscow Metro;Thanks God there is a very efficient metro in the crazy Moscow. Before I get acquainted with the metro I used to use only taxi, that were really expensive and that took muuuuuuuch more time than the metro. So, once in Moscow, do try the metro. Cheap, quick and effective.;4;February 21, 2016
Great History;Even though it looks old compared to modern day metro/subway stations but still you will have a very different feeling when you get in. Its really shows the strength of the Soviet Empire what it use to be (a country spending so much on Metro ceiling decoration). One special thing I remembered is when you are going down taking the escalator it's very steef and I won't be surprised if somebody feels like "I am about to fall down". It's a great experience I had while in moscow and I took subway for going around most of the point of tourist interest. Happy Experiencing Life !!!;4;February 21, 2016
Stunning but not easy...;This metro system is as beautiful as people claim. It is the prettiest metro system I have ever been on but not the easiest to navigate by any means. Unlike St. Petersburg metro, not all the signs are in English as well which means you often have to stop to refer to a map or double check the Russian translations of the stops you want to visit. I'm sure, once you get the hang of it then this becomes much easier but I often found myself getting in commuters/locals way as I was having to move to the side to find maps. This is a very deep metro so the escalators are huge and it is definitely not wheelchair friendly. I wouldn't recommend it to anyone who doesn't want to walk particularly far but it is a great way to get around Moscow for those who are mobile. Interesting to see the artwork as you travel round and the open bridges over the lines... You would never get those in London!;4;February 21, 2016
Visit the underground metro stations;If you are into photography, this is a must. We paid R50 each for a metro ticket., and visited all the underground metro stations. This is really a must, as they are all divers and architectural gems.;5;February 21, 2016
Very handy!;No problem whatsoever, get the map of the stations on English,  read the forum advise on how to ride the metro (it is under the read this first in the forum, and it will a smooth travel all around!;4;February 19, 2016
Unsafe. Crowded. Noisy. Not air conditioned.;Most people will say Moscow Metro is unique and beautiful. Lot of sophisticated architecture in some of the central stations. The proud of the city. But first of all it's the public transportation network that should deliver people. And in fact - it's unsafe (many people die yearly), crowded (jams happen quite often), noisy (in many cases it's almost not possible to talk to the guy next to you) and almost entirely not air conditioned. So try once to see those architecture pieces and take taxi.;2;February 18, 2016
Not to be missed !!!;If you love architecture, or art, or transportation, you have to ride the metro in Moscow.  It is unbelievable...each station is different and each is just lovely.  I speak no Russian, and had no problems taking it for an afternoon.  I simply made note of the stop nearest my hotel, and then went on the main lines, frequently getting off to see stations, and occasionally going outside to walk around different parts of the old historical city.  It is even more impressive than the pictures you may have seen.  It is deep underground, and I have never seen such long escalators - you truly would not want them to break down !!!;5;February 17, 2016
The Moscow Metro...see it to experience it..;I've been in Metro stations in many places around Europe.  This was my first visit to Russia and was told visiting a metro station was something to experience while in the country.  I was impressed with how clean they were and with the art work..bronze statues and representations of the revolution from the early 1900's in some cases.;4;February 17, 2016
A must in Moscow;The Moscow is an inevitable must in Moscow The stations are beautiful, and it doubles as a very affordable and extremely effective transportation method;5;February 17, 2016
It can be better;Moscow metro it is dualizm. From one side - this really nice sations, with hystory and nice pictures, mosaic. This is great possibility to avoid track jams and arrive in time, this is really a chance to be with people and to see people.But ( sorry, always there is BUT) - crowd, practicaly 12 hours, very hot, during winter time in a warm cloth it is not possible to survive and breath, during summer time just no air. It is a lot of steps, most of them are broken, it may cause that your legs will be broken. If you have a problem with helath - metro it is not your choice.;5;February 17, 2016
Moscow Metro on your own;Dont bother with an organised trip by a fixed price metro ticket and armed with the list of which stations to visit anf the metro map you can easily spend a couple of hours visiting the stations and being amazed by their spleandour.The history of each is all online and you cannot get lost,One secret tip if the voice announcing the next station is a woman you are travelling away from the centre back to you mother but if the voice is male you are heading into the center and it is your boss. On the circle line the voice depends on if you are travelling clockwise or anticlockwise.Trains run every couple of minutes and should you wish to change lines follow the coloured arrows on the floor.;5;February 15, 2016
Great Metro;Before I took the path of Metro hopping, I was wondering why would anyone take this journey. When I started, I know why. It is great and interesting. In particular, I like the metro with the stained glass and bronze statues.;5;February 15, 2016
Go by Metro...mad if you don't!;If you can read a map you can travel on the metro.  It's fantastic and even though I'm not very smart I managed more than a dozen trips without making a single error.  Changing lines isn't difficult, just look at the writing on the map and compare it with the signs.  And the stations themselves are beautiful.  Bring your camera!;5;February 15, 2016
Not only beautiful but easy to use!;The Moscow Metro is beautifully designed, both inside and also on the entrances outside. What makes it better is how easy it is to use. I find it easier than the London tube. Single tickets are 50 ruble;5;February 15, 2016
Wow!;I was just blown away by the fantastic design is the metro stations. I could have spent all day travelling around below ground just visiting them.;5;February 15, 2016
Hard To Navigate If You're An English Speaker, But Very Beautiful Stops;I bought a 2 pass ticket and just rode the rails for a little while.  It was a great place to people watch, see the different architecture at each stop, and was a unique experience.  If you are riding to get around note that not all stops have signs stating what stop it is and it may be a little difficult to keep up because everything is in Russian.;4;February 14, 2016
Best in the world;There is not a single transportation system in the world as good and extensive as subway in moscow. Without it this city would of suffocated with traffic but even now with millions of customers using it every day it is still impossible to drive in the city;5;February 14, 2016
Moscow metro is the best;It is the best I have been on yet. I am comparing London, Moscow, Paris, Montreal, Delhi. The Moscow metro has the most fantastic and beautifully decorated stations one will ever see. Positive points: Traction system in use is very smooth and not bumpy and jerky like the one in London. Not overly crowded like the Paris and Delhi metro.Negatives: Signs are mostly in Russian.;5;February 13, 2016
Just is its great reputation;Take a time in each stop, in each spot, look on the sky, the sculpture, the ideas... simply awesome.;5;February 13, 2016
Wonderful way to get around Moscow!;A bit of research and organization will be needed prior to using the Metro, as all the signs are in Russian, you would need to pay close attention to where to get on and off, and watch out for pick pockets in the tunnels. One of the people in our group of three got her wallet taken out of her purse unnoticed by anyone of us, obviously the pickpockets are professionals.;5;February 10, 2016
Impressive architecture;Impressive metro network. Deep below the city. Old architecture well preserved and partly renovating. Some newer metro cars, but many very old and noisy. Haven't seen any English signs. Best way to move through town. Traffic is horrible;4;February 10, 2016
Works like a charm;Always use metro to get around Moscow - it really works great. Yes, it is crowded, yes it can be smelly but after all - it is cheap, reliable and fast. Especially good when it is cold or raining or you need to get somewhere on time - traffic in Moscow is generally very unpredictable. Search for best metro stations where you can see some very special art - statues, paintings or mosaics are well preserved and publicly display history of Russia and Moscow.;4;February 10, 2016
Unbelievable beauty;Takes one by surprise. The finish of marble, the statues, marble murals, cleanliness. The beauty of imperialism and modernism coming together. It's unlike any other metro in the world. And so efficient and fast. I am really impressed. Wish the station names were written up in English or using an easy alphabet.;5;February 9, 2016
Efficient, inexpensive, and beautiful;The Metro is definitely the best way to get around Moscow.  Many of the stations are works of art themselves...showcasing the architecture of the Soviet era.  Very reasonable too!;4;February 9, 2016
The beauty indeed;The most beautiful underground in the world fully reflects russian chick and intelligence. A must see!!! Kievskaya, Ploshad Revolutsii and Mayakovskaya are just awesome.;5;February 9, 2016
One of the most beautiful metros in the world;Thing not to be missed if you're in Moscow is for sure its old metro. Some of the most beautiful metro stations in the world are part of it. Quite cheap sightseeing stop, you can spend hours visiting stations and enjoy in old-fashioned style of building;5;February 9, 2016
Wifi free;Metro, very easy, good wifi free, better if things write also in english. It s apity. for the rest clean and good;5;February 6, 2016
Art galery;The best way to travel in moscow you can reach where ever you want because there is metro in every corner and every station is like an art galery.;5;February 5, 2016
Moscow metro same as oper house;Moscow metro is very beautiful and I think it is exclusive in the world.this metro has only one objection which all of signposts are in russian language and it is very difficult for tourists.;4;February 5, 2016
Wonderful stations and service;The metro is an inexpensive and efficient way to see Moscow, using smart cards like in other main cities worldwide.  The lines are numbered and colour-coded so are easy to find even if you can't speak Russian.  Then it's a matter of choosing the right direction, easier to do if you have the name of the station you want and the final station of the line in cyrillic.  Some of the stations are magnificent, I only had a short time in Moscow so went for Pobedy Park as it's the deepest and thus an attraction for my 15-year-old son!;5;February 3, 2016
Unique !;Don't miss out on a trip underground ! It's so deep and beautifully decorated that you will not want to miss this. It can be  a bit daunting to find your way as all signs are in Russian but if you ask around, you'll be sure to manage !;5;February 3, 2016
magnificent but foreigners be ware;some metro stations such as mayakovskaya, revolution square have some of the most impressive platforms. But for a non russian speaking person it is so easy to get lost as all writing with directions is in russian only.Pocket picking is rampant and very skilled.;5;February 2, 2016
Inexpensive and efficient means of travelling around Moscow;The Moscow metro system is the ideal way to travel around Moscow. You can buy single journey tokens or multi journey cards. The stations are beautiful and clean. Very deep so transferring between lines can take 10 or 15  minutes.;5;February 2, 2016
Explore the Moscow Metro!;It is definitely worth it! Do take a trip and visit the different-looking stations. There is a fantastic feel to everything!;5;February 2, 2016
Moscow metro system - a work of art;Moscow metro is not just the perfect way of commuting in the city but a wonderful work of art.There are ~200 metro stations in the city, thus making the city very accessible. Understanding the Russian language is not necessary as long as one is able to interpret the basic modus operandi of the metro system. Keeping track of the color codes and the 'number of stations' makes life easy.The metro stations in the central ring have been tastefully decorated. They could have been art exhibitions themselves!;5;February 2, 2016
Incredible;The Moscow Metro is by far one of the most interesting metro systems in the world. Theres history and aesthetic in here that cannot be discovered and felt elsewhere.;5;February 1, 2016
Wow;It like traveling back in time nice underground. Very nice metro, of course like any big city many people the police is visible so you feel safe the architecture is very nice it was our first time taking the subway but won't be the last great cultural experience.;5;January 30, 2016
Beautiful and Efficient;My favourite way of traveling around Moscow is definitely by Metro! You can avoid frustrating city traffic and enjoy the ride in the most beautiful underground transport int the world. It's fast and reliable. Check out the stations in the city centre, they are like museums. Google some history and even myths or superstitions behind them - you will love the experience. Moreover, you will kill two birds with one stone - getting from A to B reliably plus check out beautiful stations.;5;January 29, 2016
Moscow Metro in freezing weather;Having a Moscow tour using the Metro will add to your tourism experience since the stations has nice design. Visiting the metro in Moscow should be part of the tour.;4;January 29, 2016
Very functional and beautiful metro;Having some difficulties to identify your destination, using this metropolitan is a mandatory part of a Moscow visit.;4;January 29, 2016
Like a Museum;Tokyo, London, and France can't even light a match in terms of opulence for an underground public transport. High ceilings, elaborate mosaics, and art make this unique in the world.;5;January 28, 2016
Some Stations are Awesome;Easy to navigate and not as expensive as we were expecting. Trains run very frequently so you don't waste any time hanging aroung;4;January 28, 2016
One of the most beatifull metro of the world;Every station you stop has different architecture, different lights and different culture. You cannot get bored. And I even didn't see the most wonderful one. The only difficulties is about the writing that is not so easy to read but when you understand the style is very easy. Metro is one of the most important infrastructure in Moscow since the traffic is terrible (you can even take hours for few km) and the trains are coming every 2 minutes (fantastic). I've been in many big cities but never got the same service. It's also very cheap. The vagon of the train is not very new but... it's very practical and in time;5;January 27, 2016
Best tourist attraction in Moscow;We probably have all heard of the Moscow Metro before arriving, but not only is it an effective, efficient, cheap transport system, it is also a museum of history.The decor is amazing and a snapshot of history that is very much worth exploring.Recommend the Yandex Metro app on your phone to help with navigation as the station names are very sparse and in Russian, where as the app provides a map and navigation in Russian and English.;5;January 27, 2016
It is so unique, please spend time to stop and enjoy the architecture at the stations. All of them beautiful!;It is needless to say: the Moscow metro/subway/system is the most beautiful in the World! Every station is art, the architecture is unique. The most impressive stations built from the early thirties.The stations and cars are very clean, the system is fantastic. The subway running from morning 6 am-until 1 am. The transportation is very reasonable in price, you can purchase  a weekly, daily tickets at the entrance. You can travel hours using the connection -stations. In Moscow you can reach every important destinations you wish-by the Metro. There are different transportation,/bus,trolley, river cruises,/ very-well organized. Before entering the stations, worth to have a route-map,- plan- about the destination the traveler would like to visit. You'll enjoy the Moscow-Metro from the first moment you enter. The locals very proud of their Metro-system, keep it very clean.;5;January 26, 2016
A must;The Moscow metro is part of the city history. It is a nice thing to visit, there are some really nice stations which are worth visiting.;5;January 26, 2016
Underground Museum;Best and rapid way to visit moscow. Each station has own story and significant architecture. Never forget your navigation map.;4;January 26, 2016
The stations are all unique;Each station is different. I recommend checking out most of the stations on the circle line and Mayakovskaya. They definitely make the commute interesting.;5;January 25, 2016
Surprising.;Take a little of your trip in Moscow just to see the Metro. I have never seen anything like it. Must see.;5;January 25, 2016
A must do in Moscow;There are 7 metro stations which are heritage sites Each one is different but all promoting " proganda" to the people . Most are palatial and all send out messages during communist rule . They show case the skilful craftsmen so you will see bronze figures , stain glass panels , marble plus delightful mosaics and much much more I recommend a guided tour to truly learn the history behind these fascinating stations;5;January 24, 2016
Beautiful and functional;The Moscow Metro is easy to navigate, even for foreigners. Station names are written out in both cyrillic and latin letters on all maps. You can buy a travel card (like London's Oyster card), and refill it on machines on every station. Many of the stations are beautiful, with large halls and lovely tile mosaics. As Moscow is not a very pedestrian friendly city, I suggest getting acquainted with the metro immediately.;5;January 23, 2016
Best way to move around Moscow;We were a little afraid of getting lost on the metro, but we downloaded an app that showed both names of any station so we were able to go anywhere easily. The stations are very pretty, old but very nice. Prepare to go uo and down a lot of stairs, since not all the entrances habe electric stairs.;5;January 23, 2016
Moscow's Underground [subway];It not only covers the entire city and its suburbs and makes it very easy to travel across the entire city but is also amazingly beautiful.;5;January 22, 2016
Real art. I likes best Mayakovsky station;I have traveked in many metros and undergrounds. Moscow one is inexpensive and the stations are a real object de art;5;January 21, 2016
Piece of art all around;Moscow metro is well-known for its outstanding beauty. Marble everywhere, big impressive monuments and surprising cleanliness (unlike the European metro).Seeing scan equipment like in airport on each metro stop is a bit disturbing, but comprehensive - they take care of each passenger to guarantee security of us all.;5;January 21, 2016
Very nice experience!;After one working day, we decided to test (with a local colleague) the Moscow underground! even if it was during the rush hours, was and amazing experience!;5;January 21, 2016
Best treat of Moscow. Hop on/of at all "old centre" stations to be amazed;I have spend a full day, hopping on and of the metro at practically all "old city" stations. They are a treat for your eyes and mesmerize you each time again with all their beautiful art. The metro stations are a museum on their own.;5;January 20, 2016
Beautiful;This is the most beautiful metro in the world! Definitely a MUST while visiting Moscow. This is really spectacular - beyond a regular subway.;5;January 20, 2016
Impressive;very impressive, exist for a very long time. but still very actual and convenient form of transportation for locals and toerist and great looking too.;5;January 20, 2016
Classic and pretty station;I used a lot during my stay. I don't read or speak Russian but you can go and take this train. Go any place.   Station is in the basement and warm   Compared with outside;5;January 19, 2016
Hard to navigate...;If you don't have at least a partial knowledge of the Russian language, it is difficult to figure out.  Very frustrating at times.;2;January 18, 2016
convenient;The most convenient way to explore Moscow. The trafic jams are owful in Moscow, so the best way is to use the metro.;5;January 18, 2016
Never judge the book by its cover;There's nothing to shout about the metro when you're above ground, before entering the metro underground. But this feeling transforms immediately once you descend using the escalator. The art, evidenced by the drawings on the wall, the structures and bronze sculptures of dogs, which everybody seemed to touch as a gesture of getting good luck, was unique and never seen elsewhere. Nothing much can be said about the trains though.;4;January 16, 2016
Museums!;I went in so many different stations! They are all different and all beautiful. Some had paintings, some mosaics, some statues. They all told of life in Russia. I love it.;5;January 15, 2016
Moscow undeground is the most beautiful one;Moscow undeground helps people to get to any place in Moscow rather quickly, not taking care about traffic jams. You can get from one part of Moscow to another less than one hour. But also it is the beautifulest undeground in the world. Old stations differ one from another. You will never find two same stations. Every person who comes to visit Moscow, should visit two places: Red square and Moscow undeground inside sircle line.;5;January 15, 2016
No need for a car if you live in moscow;the Moscow metro is considered the finest in the world. Built over many years to accommodate an increasing population.im told it serves 12 million people with an average wait time of 2 minuets between trains. the latest addition was built during the german invasion in ww 2 and has titanium reinforced arches holding up the ceilings .;5;January 14, 2016
Metro or Art gallery?;My subject line said it all! I visited several years ago but unless it has changed drastically, every stop I made on this metro line was a work of art, every wall is painted like a canvas, amazing!;5;January 14, 2016
Very different;The subway was like a museum and my guide treated it as such explaining all of the artwork and sculpture. We went down into it just to take a short ride because it was so different.;5;January 14, 2016
Each station is a wonder;Each station in the Moscow metro presents you with amazing beauty. I have never waited less time between trains than in Moscow. It is fast and extremely punctual, but the highlight is the stations each adorned with so much detail and beauty. Each station is more amazing than the next.;5;January 14, 2016
Moscow Metro is not transport only!;Hi, dear all! Maria from Indigo-Tour Moscow is here and I congratulate You with New Year 2016! Now I will speak about our beautiful Moscow Metro! This metro is very popular from all local people and guests of our city, because of it is very fast and cheap transport in Moscow. Price is ~50 Rub per entrance and nowhere traffic! You can go from one sector of Moscow to most long place by Metro over 40-50 min only, but it is more then 35 km. And correct to think that our metro is the good and safe transport for moving of passengers and very nice historical places too. Some beautiful stations in center of city have many Statues, Freski, the Colorglass and Mosaic Arts on the walls and ceilings. You can see light interiors of grand Moscow Metro which made from mramor, granit, ceramic and other nice and clean materials.Some stations have heroical history, some station have nice interior with ideas about Peace in the World, about cosmos and about future. It is really good idea to sightseeing Moscow underground any time, because is comfortable, clean, safe and warm during all year.Last year's all names of Metro Stations was translated to English, it is on all signs and tablets. And Russian and English names of all stations are announced through a loudspeaker at each station.All lines of Moscow Metro have different colors and numbers, all this info possible to see on map of Moscow Metro. This map is available anywhere of Metro, so all tourists can visit to Moscow Metro without problem. Before entrance to Metro need to pay ticket. It can be for one, two, five and more times of entrances. But changing all lines per one entrance is possible without extra charges. So please welcome to Moscow Metro some self or with our help!;5;January 14, 2016
Hints on this place;Hints:1) Moscow subway is overcrowded on rush hours. If you want to see beautiful old stations without hundreds of people you can do it after 9:00 PM.2) Most of great stations are on the ring line (Brown line) or inside the ring. Also pay attention to Vorobyovy Gory station (Red line, south-east), because this station is a bridge over Moskva river with big windows.3) If you have local SIM-card, you can use free Wi-Fi inside the cart.4) If you have a question or you are lost — use information terminal in the center of a platform.5) Navigation inside central stations is in Russian and English. Also watch for  direction marks on the floor.6) There is a big map of Moscow Metro in English and Russian inside every cart and near every tickets desk. You will find all metro lines, all railroad stations and airports on this map.;5;January 14, 2016
Just go see!;You have to see it for yourself - Moscow Metro Stations are really art galleries in disguise.  Former Soviet art is still there in tact.;5;January 14, 2016
Its an awesome project of Soviet Russia!;Almost every station on the circle line id pretty beautiful! I advice you to buy a metropolitan card called Troika (Тройка) it costs 50 roubles and then start your ubforgettable trip under the earth! I am leading tours there and if you wanna know the history of building, legends and to feel comfortable there - its better to rent a guide! If you enter the metro you cen spend there the whole day for the cost of one ticket -  its convinient and easy to use. Im living here and i cant imagine Moscow without metropolitain because Moscow is a huge megapolis (near 150000 people or even more!);5;January 14, 2016
better on weekend and out of rush hours;one of the must visit object for Moscow Visitors. Unlike many subways in the world who only build for mass transportation purpose the Moscow Metro build with an additional goal in mind. Keep in mind this was designed and build by communism country where majority of citizens were still religious and going under surface literally was going to hell for many of them. So idea was not only build effective mass transit system but present piece of art. The only few negative moment in Moscow Metro - majority of stations and transfer aren't equipped for people with disabilities ans metro trains are bit noisy. Also if you go there in rush hours it is way overcrowded and you will not have much comfort to observe stations art. For the most attractive stations use circle line and stations inside the circle. the rest with few exceptions are built after WWII and represent more utility than art.;4;January 14, 2016
Something to be visited in Moscow;There are two major things that should motivate you to visit the metro in Moscow.First one is that some stations are unbelievable beautiful. It is just stunning beautiful.The second one is that you see Moscow another way.  It is really impressive to see how many people are using it, it is like a wave of people (very friendly people).  One metro each 2 minutes,… super long escalators, no vandalism, people will immediately leave they seat for a older person, pregnant woman,…A really nice experience.;5;January 14, 2016
By far the biggest Russian highlight of my trip;I fell in love with each Metro station in Moscow as I passed through it. They are all so unique and architecturally different from one another. You can't afford to not include the Moscow Metro in your Russian itinerary. Plus it is a great mode of public transport.;5;January 14, 2016
Majestic Moscow Metro;Every metro station a delight. Almost excited about the next stop. Picture beautiful. Relative easy to use. Initially difficult since the Russians use a different alphabet. Tip: if all else fail, capture name on smart phone.;5;January 12, 2016
legendary;most beautiful halls, many lines, many stops... simply - Moscow metro is absolutely legendary. probably the easiest way to travel quickly in M.;5;January 12, 2016
You need a guid;The stations are all different and some are very beautiful.If you don't speak the language not sure you would cope unless brave the trains accelerate and stop quick figuring where you are and which line to take would not be easy. I am speaking from a 70 year olds perspective if younger maybe possibly;4;January 11, 2016
its like visiting a musuem;Its like with subway ticket, museum entrance fee free. Some of the station is deep underground, i have not seen such long escalator, u just will not see the other end, its that long.;5;January 11, 2016
Famous metro stations in Moscow;We took a half day visiting 10 of best metro stations in Moscow and we were reworded with the sight of magnificent work of art of Russian people. Each of these metro stations were unique in their construction, marble, murals, columns, etc. Each is an individual piece of architectural work of art. We have pat and rubbed the nose of dogs (sculptures) for good luck, just as any muscovites do passing by every day that station.Petty that the rest of stations were somehow neglected, in need of serious repair work.;4;January 11, 2016
Stations are great;Moscow metro is a very big connections all over Moscow and Moscow oblast , stations near the center is looking very great there is a lot of service to know how you will go and where to go . Try to know how to read Russian letters because it is very important;5;January 9, 2016
Efficient & Absolutely Stunning;The metro stations in Moscow are worth spending a day just checking them all out. Each one is different and themed. There are metro tours that you can do to see just the best ones.;5;January 9, 2016
Like no other metro station in the world;I have lived in London for years, been to Paris, but none of the metro/tube stations can even compare to that in Moscow! It's not just a transport link or engineering, in Moscow it's a work of art.;5;January 8, 2016
Easy and cheep;Easy and cheep to get around on busy but no different to any other city's subways.. if you get time look at the architectural  of the stations... puts London to shame;4;January 8, 2016
Stunning!;Moscow Metro is one of the most beautiful metro system in the world and it's a must see! We joined the local metro tour and the guide showed us the top rated 7-8 stations. It's always easier to have a tour guide since most stations don't have clear English signs.;5;January 7, 2016
Metro in Mocba;Metro is splendid clean elegant and safety. METRO is also relativelly cheap. We only used it as a transport.;4;January 7, 2016
Cheap and efficient, mostly quicker than a taxi.;The metro is a fast and efficient way of getting around the city. You can download a metro app on your phone for free which does not require the internet. All routes are the same price and there is no time limit on your journey. The tickets can also be used on the buses.;5;January 7, 2016
Beautiful interiors and magnificent architecture.;Moscow has an extensive metro network. It is easy to access and beautiful, it is like walking through the pages of history.However, the only downfall is that everything is in Russian, and there is no information available in other language which can cause confusion to people who are not Russian knowing.Metro also has a decent speed free WiFi.;4;January 7, 2016
Easy to navigate;Being from New York my husband and I found it very easy to navigate the Moscow metro. I would recommend downloading a metro app and doing some research about where you are going before you get on the the metro.;4;January 6, 2016
Easy access;Moscow is a big city whit the most useful metro of the world.....just jump in it and let your eyes be captured by this fantastic man work;4;January 5, 2016
Essential item on your Moscow itinerary;You haven't experienced Moscow if you left out a metro ride. This is a unique opportunity to see Russian culture from close-up. No talking or music in the stations or even on the trains. (Almost) no billboards and advertisements. No stores or eating in the stations. No litter No graffiti. Yet free wifi in the trains and great crowds of people moving about rapidly in disorganized hoards with only the sounds of shuffling feet and trains. On the trains announcements in a male voice mean you're headed toward the Kremlin. A female voice tells you the opposite. On the ring line the same applies to clockwise or anti clockwise. Each station has its own character, some very typical of the description 'Stalins monument to the people';5;January 5, 2016
Impressive;Was impressed by the Moscow Metro!  A must see!  Once you get the hang of it - not too difficult to navigate.;5;January 5, 2016
A work of art;I usually take subways in nyc and throughout the countries I visit but the Moscow subway system is truly beautiful. Everything is marble and it all looks like museums. I got off in three different stops to take pictures in one stop they had a beautiful statue of Lenin. Next time I visit which will hopefully be this year I will spend a good amount of time taking pictures of that subway system. Be mindful of the escalators as they are really long.;5;January 4, 2016
Astonishing;Like palace ballrooms! It's really worth buying a metro ticket - 50 roubles, about 50 pence, and going round the metro, having a look at the stations.;5;January 4, 2016
Great way to move around.;A little while working out how the Metro works is time well spent, the stations are interesting and some of the archticture really does impress. A constant run of trains means there is virtually no waiting. Inexpensive and a great way to move around the city.;5;January 4, 2016
Beautiful but use a Metro map in Russian;Stunning metro but if you actually need to get from place to place then get yourself a metro map in Russian and match up the names. Same goes for above ground, you need a map in Russian as nothing is written in English. But despite that definitely worth seeing and easy to use after a day.;5;January 3, 2016
Metro;Besides each train being only 2 minutes after the last one and being the fastest way to get around Moscow, you get a real nice sight to look at while waiting, me and my sister took 2 hours on our last day and roamed a bit looking for the prettiest stations and we weren't disappointed.;5;January 3, 2016
Metro;it's very good place to see it's highly recommended it's has a very interesting interiors. it's in every place in moscow and they all are great.;5;January 3, 2016
Magnificent architecture and art work;A guided tour of the Moscow metro is a must do as you will miss many important details without good explanation, unless you are prepared to do your own research. Not to be missed Mayakovskaya with its glorious mosaics, ploshchad Revolyutsii with examples of revolutionary statues, the grand Kropotkinskaya just to name a few. Travel on long escalators to reach the depths of this stunning metro system. A city under the city, spectacular!;5;January 3, 2016
Awesome!!;The metro in Moscow is vast and the price for travel is very cheap compared to the London Underground!! I have never waited long for a train either! The metro is always very clean and warm even when it is -18 outside! The art work and decoration inside the metro is fantastic and would not look out of place in an art gallery. I would recommend it not only for getting around Moscow but also seeing the awesome and opulent decor!! You can also get discounted travel by using a card called "three horses" in Russian it the second picture, this gives you discounted travel on top on the already low cost the metro provides.;5;January 2, 2016
Unbelievable;Best metro I have ever been. Every station is a treasure, you walk downstairs to the train you feel like you are in a palace and this is the Kings private entrance to the metro! It's really unbelievable, full of marble, statues, chandeliers etc! Incredible.Very easy to navigate as well;5;January 2, 2016
Proud to be a Moscovite!;Moscow metro is a must-see for all visitors who will appreciate the clean walls (graffiti on marble?), the art and the diversity, the efficiency, the ladies at the escalators and the grim faces in the crowd which do not seem to appreciate the beauty around them.I always bring my guests for a tour of the metro and have learnt to appreciate it much more through their eyes.;5;January 1, 2016
Busy, efficient, beautiful;Walking into the Moscow Metro is like walking into a museum. Its platforms are wonderfully decorated with details of Russian history, and it is wonderful to see what the Russians have done with this, a movement away from the other boring and plain underground transport systems of the world. The trains are frequent and efficient, altough they can get really crowded at rush hour. It is advisable to keep your precious possessions close at these times. There is an expectation to give up your seat to an elderly person or pregnant woman, or a person with a handicap, or a person with a young child (which should be logical to any person, really). Unsaid rules (although they can be made known in announcements over the PA) are that on escalators, if you prefer to be taken up or down by the machine standing still, you must stand on the right-hand-side, and allow those hurrying up or down to move on the left. There is often Russian Classical music playing for your entertainment, as the subway is really deep in some places! You can take the Metro and it will leave you conveniently close to any location you desire. The system can be difficult to navigate if one understands no Russian, and cannot read Cyrillic text, but the newer trains have status boards atop the doors in Roman text, and I am informed that by the time that I left Moscow, new recordings of English announcements of stops, etc have been made. Someone may in the future confirm this in a later review. It is, all round, a safe, reliable and cheap way of getting around the city, and avoiding expensive cabs.;5;December 31, 2015
Back to the past.;After 25 years we visited again Moscow and of course we used Metro ,as our only public transport, comparing to the past :there are many new stations, there are also new system of thickets ,with different cost so if you will spend few days in Moscow ,you may buy thickets 7, 11or 20 rides it will be cheaper than each time purchase one ride thicket, that cost 0.7 USD ( before 25 years metro ride cost 5 kopeks.;5;December 31, 2015
Must see;We spent part of the day just traveling to different parts of the Metro.  I have not seen a more beautiful subway anywhere.;5;December 30, 2015
Easy to travel, a must see.;I was very suprized to see the monumental, varied architecture of the metro stations. Just beautiful. Very clean everywhere.And of course it is very easy to travel on the Moscow metro after you've learned the basic idea. One journey costs 50R.;5;December 30, 2015
Clean;Wow this is truly amazing , the history behind it is too.  It was very busy when we visited however loved it and felt very sFe. We also used the metro, fast and budy;5;December 29, 2015
Luxurious underground;One of the most amazing and fabulous sight from Soviet Union time. But you should be there without thousands hurrier Muscovite in the morning and in the evening!;5;December 28, 2015
Improvements in Moscow metro;I live in Moscow and usualy go by car or taxi in city. For a month haven't been in metro. Safety of trains and electricity are still under question, but they totally improved navigation system and made stop announcements in English. Great job!;4;December 27, 2015
archetecural wonder;The Moscow metro looks more of a architectural exhibition instead of mass public transport facility. Each station looks like a mini palace and is quite deterrent to each other.;5;December 26, 2015
Beatiful crowded noisy - worth a visit;Start from the Circle, visit as many stations within the Circle as you can. Kievskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Ploschad Revolyucii, Mayakovskaya, Kurskaya and some others are my favorites. The trains are noice and vibrate a lot. Don't viit during rush hour, that's 8-10 in the morning and 5-7 in the evening on weekdays. The ride costs about 50 cents and it's best to by the Troika card for less than a dollar, deposit the money and ride at a reduced fare. Try to spend all the money and return the card at the end of your trip to Moscow. You will only get back the cost of the card, not the deposited amount, so don't charge too much on it.  The best thing - the Moscow subway (Metro) has a fixed fair so you can enter it, spend half of the day looking at the stations and leave - all for a single fair. Another tip - Yandex.Metro would be the best Android/IOS app to find your way around Metro.;5;December 26, 2015
Piece of art;As a tourist, you are most likely invited to look at the Moscow tube, called Moscow Metro. It is an interesting tour.Taking into consideration, that the stations within a circle or centre ( something like the 1st & 2nd zone in London) build a century ago, are incredibly beautiful. Most of them remind us huge halls in museums. Truly, it is a piece of art!;5;December 26, 2015
Fast, efficient, and beautiful.;Three days whizzing around on this but also dived off at numerous stations to take in the sights - several were like visiting great cathedrals or art galleries.;5;December 23, 2015
100% worth visiting;I live here, I use it everyday, but I cannot get used to the fact, that it is so marvelous. The best and the most interesting stations are within the Ring line (inclusive), although you may find some gems outside or even in the outskirts of the city - like the new lines from Strogino and to the end of the line. Still I do enjoy walking the halls of central stations - Mayakovskaya, Arbatskaya, Ploschad Revolutsii, Komsomolskaya etc. These and many more are a piece of art. Keep in mind that each joint station has a hall ion each line - the mostly differ. The best way to enjoy the Moscow metro is to ride it on Sunday morning - no crowds rushing back and forth etc. Find someone local, who may guide you around and tell you the stories of lines and stations, because there are many. And read the web beforehand to note the places, you want to see - the whole thing is huge.;5;December 23, 2015
Fast and inexpensive way to get around Moscow;Fast and inexpensive way to get around Moscow. Discerning station names may be a bit difficult but not impossible. Clean. Both the platforms and tracks. Easy, quick and inexpensive trip to the airport. There are some very beautiful stations that are worth taking the time to see.;5;December 21, 2015
Convenient;The metro is clean, convenient, and can take you almost anywhere in Moscow. Many stations are like a museum. The signage is mostly in Russian but there are some improvements to have English but you can't really count on that.;5;December 21, 2015
Quite difficult to get around here;Yes, the Moscow Subway really looks amazing inside. Some stations have marble pillars, artworks, mosaic and even statues inside. The amount of stops/stations in Moscow is also among the biggest in the world. However, what was always surprising me here is the lack of translated signs or at least, names of the stations written in Latin characters. While in St Petersburg everything was translated long ago, Moscow with way more foreigners visiting/working there has nothing. And Moscow metro system is way too complicated to find the way around even for Russian tourists. So be careful there!;4;December 21, 2015
The number one attraction in Moscow for me.;We spent a long half-day visiting about ten metro stations, with a great guide. We also used the metro for travel on our own. The architecture and art work in the various stations we saw was tremendous. Many long, ornate platforms, and the art work included statues (so many!), paintings, tiled pictures, stained glass windows and wonderful lighting. What a delight to see these.Riding the metro was relatively easy, once one had a map and followed the journey on it. Very few signs in English (or any other language) and most people cannot understand or help you; certainly not the staff. It's a cheap and extensive system.Some of the escalators are very long and may frighten some people - but they appear safe enough. The train are very noise and the carriages dated.;5;December 20, 2015
Great form of transportation;I recently visited moscow, and we took the Merto almost everyday. It's amazing how efficent it is. You get a pass card and it's 50 ruples a ride. Which works out to be a dollar Canadian and you can literally go from one end of the city to the other on it without coming out of the metro. It's a must see. Every station is like a museum/ work of art. Each station represents something different.Every train has maps in them. It can be tricky to figure out at first where your going and how to get there. Once you figure it out,you  realize it makes alot of sense. It's very clean there's no garbage and no one eats or drinks on the metro.but this is not the place to say "oh after you". It's very busy hustle and bustle. Everyone knows where there going, and are in a hurry to get there. Mostly just the tourists are the ones standing around looking and taking pictures. There is tours you can take of the metro. It's something you can't miss in Moscow. The only thing I didn't care for was how loud some of the trains were, when we road on the older ones the squeals of the track where very loud. And there quite stuffy, gets pretty warm. But other then that it was great.;4;December 19, 2015
Most effective way to transport yet only in Russian!;It was really easy to get around using metro, but the problem was that there are no signs in English. Fortunately, at each station you can spot yourself using the Metro map. and, if you take the wrong direction, do not worry. Next stop, get off and return. Remember, check out the name of the station as soon as you arrive. We even went out of town and the taxi wanted to charge us 1000 r, but we took the metro for 150 r. See, it works! Plus, some stations are so beautiful you want to walk slowly and enjoy!;5;December 18, 2015
Must see!;This works!! And it is soo beatyfull, you will not find a Metro station with this look any other place in the world. Easy to use and brings you to your destination very fast. A 20 trip card cost 530 rupee'. Great!!;5;December 17, 2015
Unbelievable :--(((((;Its the biggest metropole in Europe and nobody speak english. The Information desk in the Metro only speak russian, the ticket machines also and everywhere are young and drunk vigilantes. I never feel like there uncomfortable. Because it was inpossible to communicate. We try english, german, czech and spain and nothing. One time in a live and not anymore...;2;December 16, 2015
Quite amazing;Walking in Moscow is often a very stressful and unpleasant experince, due to the high volume of traffic speeding through the city..think the M6 relocated down Regent Street. Hence people use the Metro. Once in, it is quite something to behold. In some of the stations it is more like stepping into a ballroom than onto a platform. Beautifully domed ceilings, sparkling chandeliers, statues celebrating health and heroes...and absolutely no advertising. Amazingly the trains in comparison are tinny and dour...think Soviet grey and beige. A word of advice, interchanges are vast and it's  quite easy to walk for 15mins before getting to the platform you need. Make sure you enter the station you need at street level, rather than walking for miles through badly signed tunnels. Get familiar with your Cyrillic letters and get down there...a brilliant experience.;4;December 16, 2015
Impressive;Probably the most impressive metro system in the world in terms of architecture, some stations are really monumental. If you get the chance, I recommend to get in one of the metro tours, because the guide will take you to the most interesting stations and explain their history better than you can find out for yourself. Not all stations are special of course, and as a tourist it will be very handy to be able to read Russian, otherwise it can be hard to navigate.;5;December 16, 2015
Safe, fast, cheap, convenient;The metro in Moscow is a great experience. It is very noisy, but it is the metro. As a transportation sources is great; faster than taking a cab across the city. It isn't crowded, and it's easy to figure out your stops, even if you don't speak or read Russian. Simple common sense; memorize how the name of your destination is spelled. Inside the metro you'll find a list of stops that light up gradually, as each stop is reached. The stop coming up will always have blinking lights within the list, until the stop is reached. Then the lights on the list turn solid, and the blinking ones are for the stop coming up. There is ALWAYS plenty of security in the metro station or in the metro. You find small groups of 5 police officers who board the metro and ride with passengers. Very respectful.;5;December 16, 2015
Wow;So many works to see a each station. There are expensive tours to join to see the main metros but for 1/10 th of the price you can do it yourself but do it earlier in the day not 4pm onwards.;5;December 15, 2015
Public Transport;Watch cameras and things while enjoying the beauty of the interiors. LOTS of people going constantly in and out. Worth of seeing the cleanest and the most beautiful public transport under the ground.;5;December 15, 2015
The best attraction in Moscow;Absolutely superb. No need to get a guide, just take a look at your own pace. Make sure you set off early (weekend is best) to avoid commuters and tour groups;5;December 15, 2015
Beautiful metro, but avoid the rush hour;The Moscow metro is simply amazing. The older stations in the city centre and many on the circle line are really beautiful. Each one is a unique work of art. There are some that are nothing special, but they are mostly on the outskirts. Although it is nice to see that the new stations being built are following the old tradition of making them beautiful as well as utilitarian.One thing to keep in mind, especially if you are with kids, is that there are no lifts in any of the stations (with the exception of some of the new ones recently built). While there are escalators, you will still need to go up and down some stairs in most cases.The second thing to keep in mind is that it is noisy. While they are working to minimise the noise of the trains, it can still be quit loud.And lastly, avoid rush hour (weekdays between 09:00-11:00 and 16:00-19:00) especially if you want to take pictures.Some of my favourite stations are: Beloruskaya, Dobryninskaya, Kievskaya, Komsomolskaya, Kurskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Prospekt Mira (currently closed), Elektrozavodskaya, Park Pobedy, Ploshchad Revolyutsii, Smolenskaya, Mayakovskaya, Novokuznetskaya, Tsvetnoy Boulevard, Dostoevskaya, Vorobyovy GoryYou can look these up on a metro map and plan your sightseeing trip in advance.One thing I love is that you can buy a metro ticket for 50 roubles (less than 1 euro). This will get you into the metro and you can spend as much time as you like and go through as many stations as you like. Amazing price for any tour in my opinion!;4;December 15, 2015
Very interesting.;First, you should know Cyrillic alphabet it is the basic, because all signs and names  are in Cyrillic alphabet.It is and adventure for the first times.Interesting decoration of some stations.Very clean and to my opinion, even safe.You should be aware of pickpockets.Usually people will not help you, maybe because of the language barrier, or because they are always on the run.Stuff really try yo help.It can give you a different view on city life.and the most important thing, It is the most efficient transportation in Moscow.Oded;4;December 15, 2015
Nice Metro;The Moscow Metro station is very nice. There is very unique decoration with Russian architecture. There is only in Russia.;4;December 13, 2015
An Art Museum.;Oh my gosh, I fell in love with the Moscow Metro. Each of the stops is a different art to behold, truly an art museum for all. If you are in Moscow, I highly recommend taking a Metro tour. History, culture, art and transportation all rolled into one spectacular composite.;5;December 12, 2015
THEY LOOK LIKE PALACES!!;The stops on the metro in Moscow were truly one of my favorite destinations in the city - not insulting the city, stops were just that beautiful!!! One had beautiful bronze statues, others were filled with incredible mosaics, just awesome.;5;December 11, 2015
The palace of the people;The communist regime recognized the fact that it could not provide everybody with a palace and so built this underground network instead. The stations are unbelievably beautifully decorated, each different from the other. Aside from that it is an exceedingly quick and efficient way to get around Moscow;5;December 10, 2015
A Metro Tour is a Must;Quite simply the most impressive metro system in the world because the the station and their architecture. Such history and beauty to be found.;5;December 8, 2015
Great transporting option;I always take the metro to get form my hotel to locations around and outside of Moscow, it's faster and more convenient than driving around the city.The metro is punctual and you can get cell service even in rhe deepest tunnels.;5;December 7, 2015
a must do;Yes it is very busy and noisy and if you are not used to the alphabet then it is easy to get lost but..... a bit of time and practice and it is an essential way to get around as well as being a living, working art gallery and museum.  Worth going into and getting in the way to see it. Also far better than the taxis that can be 'cheap' but almost every time I have used one they try to rip you off and always get stuck in traffic - 40 mins and 700r for a taxi or 50r and 10 mins on the metro?;4;December 7, 2015
Spectacular!;Using the Moscow metro feels as if someone not only thought about one's ability to travel from place to place but also about how he'd feel while doing so. The beauty and different designs in each station make traveling a pleasure instead of a burden.;5;December 7, 2015
The Art Work;One of the most grandeous train stations I have ever seen.  Built in the old soviet unerground tunnels, you get threre by either walking the snake like tunnel or taking a huge esculator (the longest one I've been on and I;ve seen many in Hong Kong - nothing quite like thisThe Art work that is everywhere is amazing, not something I expected to see at all, Russia has such rich history and seemingly a government and its people looking after it and creating the new - how many times can you say to someone....you really have to go and see thje train station!  this one is worth it;5;December 6, 2015
Needs to be on your 'to see' list!;Taking a trip on the Moscow metro combines travel with the wonders of the architecture of the various metro stations. A trip on the metro should be on you list after the Red Square, Kremlin and St Basil's Cathedral. On another Tripadvisor's recommendation i downloaded the Yandex app which is good to a point, however you're still left trying to match up english station names with the Cyrillic translation which isn't easy. Contrary to popular opinion the Muscovites are on the whole friendly and were more than happy to help us navigate the labyrinth passages. Buying tickets: You buy multiples of trips so you buy 5,11, etc trips and just pass the card across the turnstile to your fellow traveller.Unmissable.;4;December 6, 2015
it`s a kind of museum;you can spend hours to be there, it`s a wonderful place and full of old pic, and trust me you want to see it. but don`t try to ask someone for address most of them can`t speak english , make sure you have a subway map to use it;5;December 6, 2015
Art & travel;The metro in Moscow is the most used public transport in the world. Built around the 1930's approximately and has only shut down once ever since, during the world war when Hitler's nazi army was about to attack. Stalin had planned to get the German soldiers in the metro and blow them up, but the Russian soldiers stopped the advancing German army from entering Moscow. Each station is based on a different theme in the era of the Russian history. Worth the visit and fun to travel in. It is 62 meters below ground.;5;December 6, 2015
An experience not to be missed;Moscow metro connects every corner of Moscow seamlessly. Metro map is very easy to understand and follow for anyone.The stations are well maintained and house different gorgeous interiors.;5;December 5, 2015
Simply the biggest;I wouldn't call it an attraction itself but I was very impressed with the size of its stations and stairs. The other good thing to mention is the frequency, which is quite high all day. Rush hour in certain station is just the same as any metro in the world. Worth taking it just to see a different thing from the ones we are used to in Western Europe.;4;December 3, 2015
Every station is different;Never seen anything like it!  Had seen pictures of the metro stations and all their grandeur, but to see first hand was something I'll never forget.  The decor, oppulence, historical references, bronze statues, all sights to behold.  Got off at the stop closest to Red Square and it was filled with war related statues and women with children.  Busy places of course, but having experienced London Underground, was prepared for the hustle and bustle.  So glad I had the opportunity to experience such a wonder.;5;December 3, 2015
Different style every Metro;I felt exciting in every design all the Metro. I suggest that you should not travel on business hour because they have a lot of people.;4;December 2, 2015
Marvelous;If you learn russian letters, you can get along in the metro  by yourself. Many stations are wonderfuly decorated and the trains are efficient and comfortable.;4;December 1, 2015
Amazing and extensive;One of the best underground in the world and one of the first made, first line done in  1935.44 stations are considered Word Heritage and are a fashinating and historic patrimony and really is a must to see. Very simple to use the metro from the signs and color lines even all the signs are in russian language.;4;December 1, 2015
you will me let with an open mouth;I have been in many undergrounds world wide but this is a one of a kind underground, they have concerts in it super clean ,,,,marble, chandeliers, brass status, art work, murals weighting tons on the ceiling trust me just do it and find a tour guide;5;December 1, 2015
Get into the details of the Underground;Very impressive architecture and history! In my last trip, I booked a guided visit to the metro and to one of the cold war time bunkers linked to the city underground, which I recomend. I have been visiting the city for years now, but this time I got the very details of several stations and the system. It is also quite easy to go through the metro system by your own, with a map (or better the App of the moscow metro).;5;November 30, 2015
Charming, astonishing, amazing.;Moscow Metro can't be compared.Every single station has a story to tell and masterpieces to be discovered.Enjoy it!;5;November 30, 2015
Lovely all around;Amazingly designed,  nicely decorated,  probably the world's most impressive metro. Nothing to complain about except for some old noisy carts which are  sometimes even overpacked. But it was a very nice experience.;4;November 30, 2015
Cool AND warm!;A really interesting metro system, fascinating architecture and well run trains. Sometimes difficult to tell what station you're at due to few signs, but otherwise easy to navigate. Nice and warm against the cold outside;5;November 29, 2015
Every Station has a different architecture;Actually like i said Every Station has a different architecture. there are beautiful portraits on the walls and its quite a different experience for a newcomer in town.;5;November 28, 2015
Super metro;As others have pointed out; this is the best way to travel in Moscow central. Even for people without any knowledge of cyrillic it is very easy to figure out how it works. The metro is clean, has some very impressive stations with great architecture and decorations and is very safe. Great way to spend a rainy afternoon. We could have stayed in there for more time!;5;November 28, 2015
Super fast and efficient;Loud, bumpy, not particularly modern, but gets you where you're going in a hurry! The old architecture of some of the stations is gorgeous.;5;November 27, 2015
The way to get around.;If Jack Reacher says you can always judge a city by the tone of it's metro/underground, who am I to say different. Definitely the way to travel around Moscow and not because it's roads are jammed with traffic. Trains every minute it seemed and then there's the stunning stations. Didn't get around to all the 'must sees' but i'll be back to moscow;4;November 24, 2015
Amazing;You wont travel on a more beautiful metro, the architecture is amazing, but feels like you really are stepping back 60years. Difficult to navigate if you dont speak/read Russian.;5;November 24, 2015
Not just a means of getting around;With a number of stations almost attractions in their own right, from extravagant lighting, marble columns, wonderful sculptures and artworks, a wonderful public transport experience;4;November 24, 2015
Each station is fantastic;Each station is piece of art. All of them have unique design. You can see a history from USSR to modern Russia thru these stations.;5;November 22, 2015
Easy to use with incredible design;Easy to use and buy tickets for your travel around Moscow. You can just hold up your hands and ask for 10 train rides. You will want to bring your camera as amazing designs at key stations. Keep valuables close to you was a warning I was given. I had a very great experience and would use again. Download Yandex Metro App to help plan your journey.;5;November 22, 2015
Hmmmm...;Whisky we were here, we decided to brave trying to navigate on this underground from hell. When we got off two stops down, we got followed as I was aware to this, I managed to run but my two friends got their bag stolen and kicked on the ground. Never again!;1;November 22, 2015
Easy to use;Easy to use even for a non Russian speaker. Not quite as easy as others I have used, but doable. Holy crap it is far under ground though.;4;November 20, 2015
Best Metro in the World;Almost all stations in the center are worth a visit! Like subterranean palaces. The Metro is Moscow´s most used transportation system, and by watching the people you get an insight into today´s Russian society.;5;November 20, 2015
Best in the World;The Russians know how to do metro/subways, and how to connect people in their major cities so that having access to a car is unnecessary. They also know how to create amazing architecture in their metro stations, and it's worth taking the metro if only the experience the architecture! The remnants of Soviet/Communist rule are fascinating too, as well as architectural trends over the decades of their existence--from Soviet brutalist influences to Imperial Russia. Good times!;5;November 20, 2015
Moscow Metro Stations.;An incredible not to be missed tour of Moscow's Metro rail for any visitor, Komsomolskaya Metro is one of the best. Built during Stalin's time; granite and marble floors and pillars, its multi-panels portray Russia's military victories. The metro network is one of the deepest underground rail systems to be found anywhere and served as a bomb shelter for citizens during  World War II. All signages, including ticketing are in Russian and its best to go with a guide and keep a metro map handy.;5;November 20, 2015
Beautiful stations and a lot of history;Moscow metro is great. It will take you anywhere in Moscow. A little expensive but then so is Moscow. Some of the stations are works of art. Nothing you have ever experienced before. I only have one word of warning. Be careful getting on or off the train. People are not as polite as you would like, I got trampled trying to get on a train and lost my glasses. So please be careful.;4;November 19, 2015
A photographer-traveler must stop;I always love noting the differences in metro systems across the world. This one truly stands out. Very large platforms, antique trains, centuries old chandeliers, fine tile work... Just a bit different than most every other underground metro in the world, and not something most travelers have on their to-do list when travelling on budgeted time (and, sadly, seeing the subway isn't always such a hoot. I live in NYC. It is a somewhat "different" experience here).;5;November 19, 2015
Welcome to the Moscow's Metro!;Soo much people!!! Not cheap, by the way, but quickly and interesting places for every one. I recommend to use this transport for to reace in centre or come back from popular places in Moscow.;5;November 17, 2015
museum;it is very big like a city under Moscow and some of the station are world heritage which is a must see. usually its very simple to use the metro from the signs and color lines.;5;November 16, 2015
Moscow Metro;very efficient and very clean….like a museum with trains passing thru it…..very cheap way to get around Moscow;4;November 15, 2015
Worth your whole evening;A lot of stations are really beautiful! It is worth hopping on and off the train to view a lot of stations. I suggest the ring line, maybe with a I visit to Mayakovskaya. There are also tours. I can imagine they are with it, but I went just on my own in the evening. A great experience!;5;November 15, 2015
You'll be impressed;you definitely need to do this with Russian speaking guide. Although metro system is simple i didn't see many signs in English and remember thinking that a foreigner would have got lost. My husband and I went  to few most famous stations and we both were impressed . Cost  is only $1 entrance fee. My favorite were Komsomolskaya, Prospect Mira and Kievskya.;5;November 15, 2015
Giant Marble Architecture;Looking at metros outside its nver attractive .. but when you go inside its different part of the world.;5;November 15, 2015
Russia in Summer;My first visit to Moscow with my Russian wife. I was absolutely astonished at this magnificent underground system. Each station is different and it's like entering a grand building on every occasion. Simply breathtaking.;5;November 13, 2015
Not to be missed... museum on rail?;Highly recommend this if you are going to Moscow. The architecture, chandelier, mosaics and sculpture are all amazing. Equally amazing are the statues of those involved in the revolutions man and animal. To best enjoy this attraction avoid the week days peak period ie morning and evening as there will be lesser local commuters.Quite a number of section are still under restoration work but there still a lot to see.;5;November 12, 2015
Outside impressive. Inside meh!;We were very impressed with the Moscow Metro System. Each station was decorated differently with beautiful chandeliers, mosaics and sculptures. Not a bit of graffiti on the walls at any station we stopped at. The architecture was amazing.  The interior of the trains was a different story. Not much different than a New York, London or Paris Subway car. Saw a bit of graffiti, not spotlessly clean. I guess this is to be expected.;4;November 12, 2015
Museum or transit System?;Stations in the center of Moscow - real architectural pearls. Up-town ones - nothing special. As a transportation  system - quite far from perfection. To get from South West to the South East you have to pass via the center of City. But changes on-going.;4;November 12, 2015
Unique theme for every station;Very unique and beautifully decorated! I have visited many metro or MRT stations in many countries, but i think this is the first metro station that is very well decorated and it has made itself becoming a tourist attaction. I have tried 3 stops on the way to Kremlin and each and every stops is unique and has it's own theme and story. And for your information, this Metro ride is actually included in my tour schedule! Must try if you are in Moscow!;4;November 11, 2015
more than beatiful!!!;The metro is so beatiful, full of pictues, chandelliers, statues,   full of history too,  It is very very clean!!!everything is in complete order, it is very big, large, it is more like a museum than a public transport,;5;November 11, 2015
Some are impressing some are a time tunnel;And some station you might not like to be walking there alone at night. But as we all know there are hidden tunnels there it is very interesting to look over and imagine it all back in the 50s. Buying tickets is not an easy thing if you don't speak Russian. And there are no signs in English.;4;November 11, 2015
World's Most Beautiful Metro Station;Feels like you are in the museum or castle. Jawdroping design and art in each station. Some of them are claimed as the most beautiful metro station in the world. In also deep, you'll spend a couple minutes or more to go down or up to metro.;5;November 11, 2015
The most beautiful in the world;We have been to many cities, but Moscow Metro is the best int he world. Clean, full of marbles, colorful and safe..and most of all hot! It is cold in november and going to the metro is  agood refuge.;5;November 11, 2015
Not to be missed;A self-guided metro tour is an easy thing to pass up, but it is such a cool experience! Not to mention a perfect rainy day or snowy day activity! You should get a book to help guide you through the different stations to help assist in educating you on what you are looking at and what to look for. But it is the perfect way to introduce you to the city, learn how to navigate the metro, see art and history (many of the stations were dug by hand during Stalin's rule!);5;November 10, 2015
Perfect for getting around, surrounded by art;Very easy to use the metro, so long as you know the station name in Russian. Also very cheap. Lots of art everywhere, sculptures and paintings.;5;November 8, 2015
Top rated;One can easily spend half-day looking at the metro stations. We did it on a Saturday morning, we she's good as it is not too busy.  I find the metro easy to use even during rush-hour although I did plan to avoid rush-hour when I was carrying my luggage. Must see for anyone;5;November 8, 2015
Best metro in the world;I have visited metros in many parts of the world. Nowhere else you can find such bombastic kitch and beautiful interiors as in Moscow. In the London metro you feel claustrophobic, in Moscow not! There is huge space underground, and the trains appear each 40 seconds without ever failing. Unreal precision and huge network. Go Moscow metro!;5;November 7, 2015
World's Most Impressive Metro System;Perhaps a more surprising venue for Moscow's historic art scene lies underground in the city's metro stations. Some 150 stations are home to all sorts of art & architecture, including marble sculptures, stucco, mastics and even chandeliers. Much of the art depicts well-worn Russian themes such as happy, healthy Soviet farm workers & narratives from Russia's history and wars.;5;November 6, 2015
Underground city;When I visited Moscow underground first time I didn't think that it is as beautiful as people say. Well, first stations weren't really beautiful. But, next stations in my opinion were like long corridor in a castle. Then, I visited new stations. They were really modern. It looked like a hall on a spceship. Moscow underground is like battle between the ages. Let me compair Glasgow underground and Moscow underground. Of course, underground in Moscow much bigger than underground in Glasgow. In Moscow it is more louder than in Glasgow, but this underground isn't as loud as people think. It is worth visiting.;5;November 6, 2015
Efficient, fast and easy to manage,even with no English signs.;Using Moscow metro is a unique experience:Every station has is own impressive decoration, and in some station you are feeling like in museum.train are available almost every minute, some are from the Communist age, but it clean and comfortable.Tickets are available in machines (English), or counter: we bought 5 ways ticket for R180 only.Try to avoid the rush hours in afternoon...;5;November 6, 2015
The best subway ever;In my opinion it is the best subway system in the world. There are more than 10 routes that really connect every part of the city and on each track the trains pass every 2 minutes, so no need to worry to catch the train coming because the next one will be coming in 2 minutes. It is extremely cheap (50 rubles to get inside the subway, then you can take even 20 trains)! The stations are all very beautiful, but some of them are amazing: lamps from the ceiling and on the walls, marbles, paintings, something you would never expect from a subway.;5;November 3, 2015
Moscow Metro;It was one of the highlights in my trip to RussiaMoscow's metro system is amazing  and beautifulEach station has it's own style and a lot of history behind the construction.if you don't have a lot of time, try to get a local guide to take you to the best stations.;5;November 3, 2015
Love the idea of taking treasures only a few can see and putting them where all can see.;So many different stations to see with chandeliers and works of art and giving the impression you are in a palace while on the way to work - lovely;5;November 3, 2015
Can't leave Moscow without a Metro ride;The metro in Moscow is stunning and cannot be missed, but besides that, it is the fastest way to get around because the traffic in the city is appaling.;5;November 3, 2015
Amazing Moscow Metro stations....;Each station (a total of 197 at an average deep of 245ft)has a different decoration,each one planned by a different architect,designer and using a different kind of luminariesThe walls are built with marble or ceramics of all colors.All the stations are amazingly clean and sure with the presence everywhere of personal ready to help you,on request.Built between 1935 and 1955,several works of art (Communist Scenes on ceramics or sculptures) were removed if possible but several others with scene of the time ,deep in the marble or ceramics in the walls,are yet there, including portraits of Marx,Lenine and Staline.So it's a must to plan a day in the Metro Stations as in a Museum on your next trip to Moscow;5;November 2, 2015
Reserv some time, to just go to the subways stations;In one thing that you must do, go to the metro stations and see around. In the soviet era, they built this enormous and elegant stations to show the power and made the people fell the sophistication of the state. They have also giants statues of the warriors of WWII. For sure, one the see sights of Moscow;5;November 1, 2015
beautiful;We thoughto I the metro to a local supermarket to buy some vodka to take home. The metro itself is beautiful, lots of amazing art on the walls, ceilings. Definitely recommend this.;4;November 1, 2015
Moscow Subway Stations;good to travel with the metro in Moscow - the only issue is the signs - None are in English which is challenging. One often ends up in the wrong direction.;5;October 31, 2015
Plan in advance, or do an organised tour. Yes! The metro really is an attraction. Great for a rainy day.;You can simply get on and off the metro and hope to see good stations - you need a list of the right stations and a plan of attack. Not all the stops do you see the good part as you get off the train, you sometimes have to go to another platform. I recommend a tour as you get a lot more info about the metro than just seeing the platforms.  In my opinion the best ones were: KievskayaKomsomolskayaProspekt MiraNovoslobodskayaBelorusskayaMayakovskayaTeatralnayaPloschad RovelyutsiiArbatskayaPark Pobedy;5;October 31, 2015
The best public transportation in the world;First of all, you don't need to have the knowledge of reading the Cyrillic alphabet fluently to use the Metro.  My husband and I simply memorized the first three letters and the map/layout is so logical, it's impossible to get lost!  We spent most of one day just riding around the system, marveling at the beauty and individuality of the stations.  The best thing is the stations are incredibly clean!  We didn't see any litter anywhere (I wish our local transit system could pick up pointers) and at the major stops, there are Western signs.  Buy a multiple ride ticket and share if you're with your family; the average cost is less than 40 cents a ride!  Wait times are nonexistent; trains come every minute during rush hour and about 2 1/2 minutes off-peak.  Transit heaven, if you ask me!;5;October 31, 2015
Believe or not believe - is a station of Metro;Fantastic station of Metrois terrible, beatiful, big, and different of Metro Stationtake your time to see a lot of pictures;5;October 30, 2015
So clean and busy;I had heard that the metro was clean with great statues, but it was way more than that.  It is super clean even though 9 million people use it daily.  The statues and paintings are sensational. We visited at 10.00pm and it was as busy as peak hour in Melbourne. Photos don't do it justice. All the stations are unique with there own artwork, statues and lighting. You must visit.;5;October 30, 2015
Stalin built it big........;Follow the Lonely Planet tour of the metro for a rainy day activity. What they neglect to mention is the metro station on a bridge over the river - it is worth getting off the train to admire the view. Take the red line south for that.;5;October 30, 2015
best way to head the roads;you can feel that you are in middle of the 19th century.especially main routes are great, some inconspicuous stops are ordinary but routes goes to Tverskaya and other main stops are great...;5;October 30, 2015
very interesting;I been to St. Petersburg but compared to Moscow metro it is very small. The stations are very interestingly decorated with soviet era mosaics, paintings, sculpture and very impressive.;5;October 29, 2015
The best on Earth;The best public transportation I have used! Really clean, fast and gorgeous!!! One stations is even better than the other!!!;5;October 28, 2015
Wonderful experience - beautiful stations;A little bit tricky (because often writen in russian only) but in general safe and especially most stations are very very beautiful. A cheap way to travel around (one trip 50 Rubels) - easy ticket machines at the entry of the station.;4;October 28, 2015
Museum underground;Not only is the Moscow Metro the fastest and cheapest means of transportations, it also still has what are probably the most beautiful subway stations in the world, 'palaces for the people'. Do not be put off by the cyrilic writing, you will figure it out when you have an English map with you or ask somebody where to get out.;5;October 28, 2015
Easy inexpensive in town travels;This slick system features attractive stations and great cheap transit around town. The folks who designed and built this system should have consulted on many other big city transit systems. Everywhere. The characters are a visual challenge but not impossible for English speakers. I envisioned an English word which resembled the terminal station Russian name which worked faultlessly.;5;October 27, 2015
One of the best;I was here in June-August 2011.This is one of, if not the best metro systems anywhere.  I've been to many:  Paris, Rome, Kiev, ...  You can get practically anywhere in Moscow on this metro.  And the stations are quite fancy in most cases.In 2011, it was 28 rubles (about $1 then).  Now, it might be 30 or more (and currently $1 will get you about 64 rubles).This is the metro system by which I measure all others.;5;October 27, 2015
Not to be missed;We took our metro tour on a Sunday which I think is the best day to do as we used the metro on other days and it was very busy, Every station is different it is wonderful;5;October 27, 2015
Amazing!;The metro of Moscow is amazing. Almost every station have its own style.Since the metro are quite deep and difficult to have mobile signal, there is free wi-fi in the train. Very thoughtful and convenient for visitors.;5;October 27, 2015
Style underground;If you can go underground then this is no ordinary trip. Well worth reading a guide before you travel to discover which stations are worth seeing. Stunning design and chandeliers hang from the elaborate ceilings at some stations. The trains are fairly basic but the stop off points make up for it. One word of warning though. Be aware of some dubious characters who hang around in groups and don't be surprised if they watch or even follow you. Don't travel with 'tourist ' stamped on your forehead. However if you do brave it, you won't be disappointed.;4;October 26, 2015
Efficient!;Efficiency is the word of the day when using the Moscow underground! Extremely well priced with a day card at R210!;5;October 26, 2015
Wonderful architechture and a well running transportation;On my first holiday to Moscow, I was going to use the Metro and what an experience to try and see for the first time.I always heard a lot about it, but it still surprised very positively with the wonderful architecture not seen similar in any other Metron around the world - astounishing!!More of the statues down there also have there own story and a small ceremony - like rubbing the dogs nose and wish for luck or similar.The transportation also was very effective - during my 4 days stay there were no interuption of the Metro and everything was working fine and easy to get around in the capitol.Try it - you will not regret!!;5;October 26, 2015
nice moscow metro station;Another nice Moscow metro station. Large, nice illuminated, interesting design, and it looks friendly for the passengers;5;October 26, 2015
Beautiful!;The metro earned a place in the top 10 must sees in Moscow. Incredible beauty, marble and the details are overwhelming and most importantly of course; It works!;5;October 26, 2015
You have to see murals in the Moscow Metro;The various stations in the Moscow Metro with their murals (the Ukranian one is specially significant given Russia's deteriorating relationship now with the Ukraine) and memorial to soldiers (complete with bronze statue of a life size dog) give a fascinating insight into Russian life of the past. Go on a Sunday when the metro is relatively quiet.;4;October 26, 2015
Take a ride;you must not miss the Metro. each station is bedecked like museums, theatres, halls with chandeliers, brass , gold , marble.Buy one cheap ticket and travel from station to station being amazed;5;October 25, 2015
Took the Metro Tour;Had a wonderful 2 hour exploring 7 stations with a guide. The stations were huge, the decoration, mosaics were outstanding, the guide explained how the mosaic patterns depicted moments of history, she also emphasized how lots of the mosaic patterns had depicted Stalin in his hey day but he had become persona non grata during Nikita Khrushchevs period in power and his image had been removed from the displays. A tour well worth taking for we would't have attempted to use the Metro by ourselves as all the destinations were in the Cyrillic alphabet. With the World Cup being held in Russia apparently stations will have the Latin equivalent names added.;5;October 25, 2015
Beautiful Underground Metro;Moscow has most beautiful underground metro stations . All stations are beautifully made and decorated in vintage style of 40s50s era . Every station is different .Amazing thing is that stations are mostly 6-8 levels below ground . This show how much Russian were advance during that time .;5;October 24, 2015
It's not a metro, it's a museum!;A must while visiting moscow.The most beautifull, clean & organize metro we had been.Avoid rush hours.;5;October 24, 2015
Travel Tips on Moscow Metropolitan (underground);Very efficient, but loud compared to London or Paris. A couple of tips:1. very little signage, so be sure to know exactly how many stops before you get off.  You can't just look out the car window and identify the station by names on the wall (like London), because all the walls are blank.2. some cars have next station on scrolling display (not all) and it is near impossible (even if you speak Russian) to hear any announcement of 'next station'3. I did not experience any station requiring a ticket to exit, only enter (of course);3;October 23, 2015
Nothing like Australian train stations;The Moscow metro stations are beautiful! When I first entered I was amazed that this was the train station - I have never seen a station like it. The Metro is the easiest way to get around so you're guaranteed to see a few of them in your travels. Highly recommend!;4;October 23, 2015
Challenging;The Moscow Metro is cheap to travel but tricky to navigate.A single ticket is 50 Rubles or a pack of 5 tickets ar 200 Rubles. Dispensed through a machine or from the teller. Get a Metro Map in both Russian and European phonetics. Highlight your home station in both formats. Each subway line is coloured so match the start/end stations of the line you want to travel and remember the FIRST 3 LETTERS (in Russian) of where you want to go, The start and end stations are clearly displayed so follow that direction until you reach the 2 platforms to these destinations,  Search for your station and go to the platform that you can recognise (the first 3 Russian phonetics ). Count the number of stops to your destination as the station sign is difficult to see as there is only one name and it is covered by the train you are on when it enters the station. Once you have travelled a few times it does become easier.;4;October 23, 2015
I need to learn to read Russian!.;The Metro is an ultra efficient way of going about Moscow city. It is very good value and if you can read Russian it works very well. I recommend some familiarity reading of maps both in Russian and your own language before arriving!!.;5;October 23, 2015
Fast, clean and with wi-fi;Been there this week after many years, they renovated a few lines and preserved very well the historical stations, very high frequency of trains and always on time, maybe little noisy but it's OK;5;October 23, 2015
Just can say woooow!;One of the most beautiful places I ever seen ,it's not just ordinary metro station ;it's a masterpiece with beautiful columns ,mosaics ,statues n glass_painings that petrify you.;5;October 23, 2015
See it to believe it;Had to take the bull by the horns and attempt to master the metro after a couple of hours it's quite easy to get the hang of,extremely cheap £3.50 for a ticket which you can use 11 times on and off various stations,tip one get a metro station planner in English 'Moscow in your pocket free guide ' from your hotel is good then get the same metro map from your hotel in Russian, all the station names are in Russian and the various lines are colour coded.I found the easiest way was to marry one map against the other I've identify where you want to go on the English version then compare the same with the Russian version.I also found it easy to count the number of stations to where I wanted to go.The stations themselves are absolutely unique with paintings,statues,chandelier lighting something I had never previously experienced.;5;October 22, 2015
A unique  sight to Moscow;A unique sight to Moscow  and one of the After  cheapest is to take a trip on the Metro  to the following  sations. Mayakovaskaya Novoslobackaya Komsomoloskya  Polschard Revolution Arbatskaua.The design  of these sations  and artwork will amaze you and make Moscow metro the best and most beautiful in the world.After the victory of the Soviet Union  over Nazi Germany new sations were designed and decorated that celebrated the great deed of the Soviet people.A tip is to look up at the celing as the artwork will astound  you. If you can only vist one sation make it Komosomisky.Than again were can you come out of the metro at Mayakovskaya  and go for a swing.No were expect Moscow;5;October 22, 2015
A bit hard to navigate;Unless you understand the Russian alphabet its quite hard to find your way around, but the stastions are beautiful with amazing architechture and design. And as with most metro systems its the best way to avoid the traffic of a large city;3;October 22, 2015
Breathtaking metro stations;Moscow has the most outstanding metro stations in the world.Each is different and a work of art .Worth spending half a day seeing different stations.;5;October 22, 2015
Museum or Metro;Moscow metros are exactly unique, everyone has different topics and story. My fav ones are Mayakovskaya and  Ohotniy rad;4;October 22, 2015
Beautiful Art;We were absolutely intrigued by the beautiful art in the Metro stations.  That in itself is a good reason to use the Metro, which is extremely efficient.;5;October 20, 2015
It worths a visit.. Red line recommended;Many stations look like monuments or museums. Is very fast and cheap.Although, sometimes it smells and most people won't help you or won't be able to because they only speak Russian.So... get a map or a gps for not getting lost.You can use roubles in cash for getting tickets.;4;October 20, 2015
An Art lover's abode, it's truly marvellous to see these underground treasures :);It was very fascinating to see the best of marble and magnificent chandeliers and art in the older metro stations. It is amazing to discover these underground treasures and I was truly dumbstruck when I entered the first metro station. It's amazing! The beauty and splendour surpasses that of all other metros around the world, be it anywhere. Also, the only drawback is the language problem since mostly everything is written in Russian so- I suggest chalking the plan before entering to avoid getting lost.I loved it :);5;October 20, 2015
elegant & stunning;Some station decorated with chandelier crystal hanging/ Mosaic ceiling of Napolien or Alexander or Peter the great stories. Rose window carving ventilization underground. Stainglass column technique. Jesu Christ or Lenin citizen leadership painting wall. Worth to visit but be careful of pickpocket and local wallet snatching thief inside. they all in team corporate.;4;October 20, 2015
Most BEAUTIFUL metro;If I had more time in Moscow, I would have gone to each station. It was really a beautiful sight. So gorgeous!! I heard it was made to be a bomb shelter. People are helping but remember you're in a city so be careful of your belongings... ask people of you need help and always give up your seat for old people and women (esp women with children);5;October 19, 2015
Simply amazing;It's true that an underground just takes you from A to B, but some Moscow underground stations look like theatre halls and are very classy. Highly recommend a tour on lines 1 and 5.;5;October 19, 2015
Best Metro Art ever;We rate the Moscow metro higher than London, Paris, NYC, or any other. The Soviet touches are particularly interesting. The lamps are magnificent throughout. The bronze sculptures are fabulous.;5;October 18, 2015
A Station An Attraction;Used Moscow Metro as part of my traveling around Moscow. Some of the station are really pretty. Beautiful sculpture, Wall painting and decoration are for you to explore in each different station.I wouldn't say that this is a MUST GO attraction. But seeing how the locals travel is also part of exploring the local culture. The fare is rather affordable as it is charge by per entry.;3;October 18, 2015
A way to get around;The stations are architectural studies. From chandeliers to modern. Take a map of the system as station names are in Cyrrilic;5;October 18, 2015
Great way to get around the city and great design;When visiting any city I always try to use the public transportation.  This is a rare case when this is also something you have to see.  Each station is unique which does help with remember which one you need to get off at.  You can buy an unlimited pass for a certain number of days which is pretty cheap.  Beware, the ticket desk personnel might not speak English, but you can work through it.  The signs are is Russian with the except of the "Way Out" signs on the floor.  Keep a train map with the station names in both languages and figure out which direction you need to go.;4;October 18, 2015
The Soviet Union's best architecture;Komsomolskaya and Kievskaya on the brown line are amazing as are arbatskaya and ploschad revolutsy on the dark blue;5;October 18, 2015
Art, culture and people;A 3 in 1 experiencing while taking Metro in Moscow. Learning the arts, experiencing the culture while observing the people;4;October 18, 2015
Unreliable;Almost every single weekend I have used the Moscow Metro system, I will just get booted off of a train in the middle of the line, and they will close the line. Last weekend, the red line closed, no warning. This weekend, it was the green line. It is proving to be very unreliable to use the metro system after 10pm, which is when people need it the most. It is supposed to be open until 1am, but apparently, some lines do not get that memo. Disappointed so far.......;2;October 17, 2015
The metro station is a museum!;I first heard about it through the turist tours but honestly you don't need to pay for a tour if you are planning to travel by metro. The stations are amazing, beautifully designed and decorated, awesome antiqued lamps and paintings make this place special. I can't believe how they manage to keep so well the stations with only the equivalent to 50p that cost the ticket, I am impressed.;5;October 17, 2015
Still dangerous;As usual the metro was always overcrowded ... Almost everywhere!Everything is shown in kyrillic letters!Without knowledge of Russian language it is barely impossible to purchase a ticket!If you HAVE to have a bag with you keep it with both hands!There are ALWAYS thieves among the people!Looking down to the floor you should not wonder to see a cockroach :-oPositively: the stations are looking nice, and traveling is still cheap and fast!;3;October 16, 2015
A MUST;I can't see why not go to the Moscow Metro. If you want to save a couple of bucks, find a self guided tour online, though I honestly think the guided tour is worth it. Just do it!! If you go after 20:00, the metro is empty enough for a calm visit!;5;October 16, 2015
This is a MEGA Metro - with wonderful artwork throughout;Our tour group was guided through the metro, all signs are in Russian, and NOT english so you need to plan your route by the number of stops, or be familiar with how to read Russian.  If you get lost, find a nearby hotel for english assistance. Many Russians speak english, but in the Metro, everyone is in a hurry.  Stand to the right on the escalator, and let folks pass you, many commuters fly down the escalators and will run you over.  If you have ever taken a metro in Paris, London or even New York, it is a similar system. Enjoy the journey, but watch your pocketbook while on board-  pickpockets.;5;October 15, 2015
Moscow Metro;Absolutely stunning underground with the deepest and longest escalator ever lol. Very cool watching the stray dogs jumping on and off the trains as well.;5;October 15, 2015
One of the largest transport systems in the world!;About two hundreds of stations!The most beautiful and famous of them are: Komsomolskaya (both), Novoslobodskaya, and others station of the circus line, as well as Mayakovskaya (green line) and Plosshad Revolyutsii (blue one). There are many metro bridges across Moscow rivers and underground segments with scenic views too.;5;October 15, 2015
Must visit in Moscow!! Must see!;Moscow metro is something you cannot miss by visiting Moscow, it is the whole city just underground!! Impressive beautiful station of it not only tell you about the history of city and country but also really piece of arts themselves: architecting , mosaic, monuments, sculptures and etc. the most beautiful: Novokuznetskaya, Belorusskaya, Arbatskaya (dark blue line), Komsomolskaya, Kievskaya, Ploschad Revolutcii; Slavyanskiy bulvar and Park Pobedi(new ones).;5;October 14, 2015
Moscow Business Trip;Recommend a trip on the moscow metro, stop of at a few stops and admire the architecture and size of some of the stations.;4;October 14, 2015
Efficient;Large and spacious couloirs make this metro quite easy to use. The indications are not bad either and what is more important it is fast and trains are frequent.  We almost never wait. The metro is also very nicely decorated. Fresques, statues and other decorations remains you about the glorious Soviet past and make really nice interiors.;4;October 14, 2015
Some of these stations make you feel like in a palace!;Ok, here we go, these station were built during the communist era and it shows! the Hammer and Sickle are as ubiquitous as the ticket selling machines and the boards with directions. Some imagery even intimidating like those bronzes at Ploshchad Revolyutsii. So they were meant to be a piece of propaganda of the wealth and progress of the Communist regime, fair enough. Now Communism is over and has left behind the most breathtaking pieces of public subterranean architecture, I've seen. Really! Some of these halls resemble more palaces than metro stations. They are worthy to visit for themselves! and to top it all, what an excellent service, never waited any time, the trains were coming and going faster that I had time to realise.;5;October 13, 2015
Grand, clean, efficient and inspiring;In our few days in Moscow, we have very gratefully depended on the Moscow Metro to help us get from A to B, without breaking the bank.  A single ticket was 50 roubles , about one Australian dollar.My husband had studied up on the Cyrillic alphabet to prepare for the days we were not employing a guide and that helped a lot.We always checked stations with fellow travellers and to make sure we were heading in the right direction.I was surprised how many young men were prepared to offer me a seat.The stations were conveniently located.A couple of times we had trouble with the automatic gates but railway staff generally were very kind and helpful.We experienced one full on rush hour, attempting to exit one station, and also had one time when a line at one station was temporarily closed, but we got through those challenges and lived to tell the tale.Do it!  Amazing infrastructure.;5;October 13, 2015
Must visit, just remember NO toilets;for muscovites its so common, but now when I live abroad everytime when I use Metro I feel just feel this great unchangable taste and fragrance of Moscow Metro- you must try and never met this again only when you back to Mw;2;October 12, 2015
Unique subway;A huge subway system know as metpo. One fare system for access. Lines are colour coded as are the subway cats themselves. The language is very tricky and we kept going in the wrong direction. Some stations are very elaborate with statutes and wall paintings. And the crowds heavy like most world systems. Get in or out of the car quickly , the attendant will not  open it again for you. You have about 15 seconds.;5;October 12, 2015
Don't miss this!;Don't miss this - A must see for all visitors. The beauty and functionality of this metro system is beyond what you could imagine.;5;October 11, 2015
the best Metro!;It is a work of art. Every station has something different and beautiful to see. Plus you never wait more than 2 minutes for the train to come.;5;October 11, 2015
Wow, spectacular;These stations were clearly built in another time but they are spectacular. There's so much detail to see, more like an event space than a subway.;5;October 10, 2015
Oldest public conveyance under the ground;In 1930 Russian government started construction of this oldest conveyance for public..... When they found the found the money crisis asked artist to decorates the wall and fabulous art comes out.. It became art gallery and you can see lot of art on the walls... It is really beautiful;5;October 10, 2015
Beautiful and interesting in their design. Easy to get around with color signs.;Moscow metro are very interesting in their designs. Some beautiful Soviet era designs. All kept like museums, and also very easy to use, even if you don't read Russian signs.;5;October 9, 2015
Good value ride;Inexpensive.  We spent 2 hours to see the top 10 stations.  All art displayed inside the stations.  Just need one single trip ticket to see them all.  Be aware of the train closing door, they slam hard.;4;October 8, 2015
Dont like it;Very crowded and hot place. Dirty and poor organized. Be careful when stay near exit doors in a train.;3;October 8, 2015
The Moscow Metro;The Moscow Metro takes you almost anywhere in Moscow. If you don't travel during peak hours, the places are not too crowded. Many of the Stations are almost like museums.;4;October 8, 2015
Truly an art;One of the best metro stations you can see. Each station is built with an artistic sense. It's worth visiting just for the experience of seeing the stations inspire of the friendly connectivity rough out the city.;5;October 6, 2015
Disappointing !;The books and the web say it's a must see, gotta do that, but in my humble opinion (and I'm very kind in all of my reviews), I have no idea what the fuzz is about. Granted some of the (150 and counting) metro stations are really something else with marble walls and beautiful ceilings but you would have to stumble upon one and when that happens you probably can't see the walls cause there's a million people between you and that marble and you don't have the time to look at the ceiling because it takes you 5 minutes to read one word (only Russian signs) so, no. By all means do it to save some money but if you want an underground history lesson, I recommend the Budapest metro and if you want one in Russia, St-Petersburg metro is just as nice.;2;October 4, 2015
more to Moscow than the Metro;Everyone says that you have to see and travel on the Metro. I agree. But having bought your Troika card for 50r and loaded it with say 450r, you have enough for about 15 trips. However it is called Troika because you can use it on other transport as well. So try the buses or trams! You just get on, tap your card on the reader and enter via a little turnstile. I recommend trolley bus 33. It runs past major sites such as the Alexander gardens, Cathedral of Christ the Saviour, Bolshoi Theatre, Lubyanka , Kitai Gorod and runs past the river as well. It's worth the ride ! Guide books say to avoid the surface transport.....But what's the worst that might happen ? Well it could look as if you're lost - so get off, cross the street and go back!;4;October 4, 2015
An enormous museum with permanent exhibitions;The most beautiful network of underground stations I have experienced in large cities around the world.;4;October 4, 2015
They go all over. Crowded.;Let's get real, ok it is nice; but too crowded, all signs are written in Russian (Cyrillic alphabet), nobody speaks English (mean metro employees). Got lost every other time I took a train there.;3;October 4, 2015
You must travel in the underground and experience the Moscow Metro;We had an amazing tour with the Metro, going through several monumental metro stations. Each station has its special features, which in other countries would be considered museum pieces and national treasures - here in Moscow part of the transportation network. An amazing experience to travel in this old, yet extremely well maintained and super clean and beautiful public means of transportation.;5;October 3, 2015
Don't miss;Our day tour of Moscow also included a tour of the subways.  Our guide bought our tickets and explained how we would ride the subway and get off at each station he wanted us to see.  We went to five different stations and each time the architecture was different.  Marble, chandeliers, frescoes, paintings etc.  They were built as 'people's palaces' and that is just what they are.;5;October 2, 2015
Look up at the underground!;It can be confusing but it is worth the trouble of negotiating your way round to see the beautiful architecture in the metro. It is easier if you stick to looking at the lower case letters of the stations under the main signs.Some of the underground is very underground indeed with long steep escalators.;4;October 2, 2015
Explore the worlds' most interesting metro filled with prosaic superstition, hidden bunkers and beautiful architecture;Have you ever taken your local Metro?Working in Stockholm I've had my share of filth, weird people and dull walls.Before I planned my visit to Moscow I knew that the Moscow Metro was known to be very beautiful.But I was not prepared for what I had coming.My guide Elena from "Moscow Free Tour" was a happy camper and was trying to get me to tag along her next tour within the Metro, I shrug and really didn't see the point- I've been riding trains since I was a kid.Long story short, she talked me into it, and boy am I glad she did!The Tour I took was a short one, compared to how many stops the metro actually have.I think we visited around 5-7 different stations but according to Elena, the most beautiful and interesting ones.Not ruining all the fun, I will not spoil the most crucial parts of the metro as some things are best experienced in real life.But did you know during the WWII, the metro was working as bunkers for the Soviet soldiers?That even today, some of the statues are being used for special purposes even in modern time Russia?If you feel adventurous I would suggest that you use the metro instead of busses or taxi, especially considering how cheap it is- a one-way ticket costs 50RUB (approximately 0,6€/0,5£/0,7$)!The metro map has a logic when you're getting used to it, in case you're going the wrong way there are a "brown line" that is going like a circle uniting all the different lines.Be adviced, the stations are in Russian only.Though, looking on the ground under the signs, the very station you're on is written in latin letters.If you're uncertain which way you should go, don't be afraid to ask- stating you're a tourist that are looking for a certain station will make the locals try to help.If your flight leave from Sheremetyevo (SVO), there's an Aeroexpress train leaving from metro station Belarousskaya and it takes approximately 30 minutes, the Aeroexpress goes to the other two airports aswell- please visit the trains website for schedule and price.There are also a special metro police that are strolling around in groups, very helpfull- these officers tend to be pretty young, leaving at least one of them knowing some English, mostly.Please notice the sense of the life being a commuter- in rush hour there are a lot of people, but at least I thought it was a very calm touch comparing to how stressed I could be on the Stockholm subway.Also, you won't find any trash on the ground, despite the lack of trash cans which was taken away over 40 years ago during a bombing in the Soviet era.There are rumors stating that there is a possibility of English signs in the metro next year as Russia will be the host of Fifa World Cup in a few years.Most hotels, guides and tourist traps have the metro map on the back of a city map in case you need the letters in English.I will include a picture of this.Feel free to ask any questions about the metro.;5;October 1, 2015
Beautiful and efficient.;The metro system in Moscow is highly efficient with very frequent and fast trains connect every nook and corner of the city. The stations are really beautiful and really crowded. The most interesting was the length of the escalators ranging to 125 metres.You won't see any English language signboards in the metro stations though,  thus its a bit difficult to understand the routes meticulously. However, it did enhance our Russian language skills!!We took the 3 day smart card for 400 Rubles and travelled unlimited for 3 days.;5;October 1, 2015
Useful Beauty;Moscow Metro - it's a good opportunity to get to where you need just in time. The interval between trains on the most frequented lines is less than a minute. Signage at stations are translated into English. Usually Russian has gloomy faces , but if you ask them for directions, they will gladly explain.;5;October 1, 2015
Must See;You must visit and tour the Moscow Metro. The building and sculptures are perfect and beautiful. Go at night for less people traffic.;5;October 1, 2015
It is must be seen (but not all stations);It must be seen. Not all stations are fantastic, but many really are. The most impressible is Mayakovskaya (mosaics, giant archs and stainless steel columns), then you should view Ploshad Revolutzii (a lot of very realistic bronze statues), and also very impressible are Novokuznetzkaya, Komsomolskaya-Circular (giant arch with no columns and fantastic mosaics, but I recommend not to contact with people there because this is transite station for 3 main Moscow railway stations), Kievskaya, Kropotkinskaya (lighting for columns), Belorusskaya-Cercular, Novoslobodskay (stained-glass panels). Also interesting are Sokol, Aeroport, Arbatskaya-Dark-Blue, Rizhskaya, VDNH and some more stations. Entry pass has no time limit within a day and costs about 30 cents if you buy a plastic card of 50 cents.;5;October 1, 2015
Mesmeric piece of Art;You got to see to believe this Place, Great Piece of Art you feel like you are in some Art Gallery and Not Metro Station and belive e they are almost 80 years od;5;October 1, 2015
Must see!!;Absolutely amazing!  Beautiful art work, mosaics and sculptures and all in the metro stations.  We took the metro to several different stops to view this amazing art.;5;September 30, 2015
Moscow Metro;What a Wow this is a must see . Absolutely beautiful stations spotless . All stations were different  and worth seeing. Went on a night tour when not too many people were using the metro so was able to browse.;5;September 30, 2015
Amazing art and sculptures in more stations than not;I really enjoyed travelling around Moscow and discovering amazing art in the Metro stations. Some of it is just stunning. As for finding your way around the Metro (for those who don't speak Russian), ask your hotel for a free city map and you'll find most of those include a Metro map that has the station names in both languages. You'll be able to find the names on the platform signs in one language or the other.;4;September 30, 2015
Fabulous art;We easily spent half a day riding the metro to the various Art Stations...was a great way to see some beautiful stations and highly recommended.  We were with a Russian speaker so that made it alot easier getting around..not as easy to navigate as the paris metro as station names are mostly in Russian with very little English translation.;5;September 30, 2015
Architectural styles galore;From modernism to Stalin Baroque, from kitchy to tastefully opulent, the Moscow metro system has it all. A living, functioning monument to an era which is best forgotten.;5;September 30, 2015
Fabulous stations, grandure, marble, space;Hard to navigate if you don't read Russian or Cyrillic but a lot of the trains have a little display that shows what station  you're up to - go to Komsomol'skaya, north east, it's one of the grander ones, get a multiple ticket for all of you it's easier, there can be a lot of walking between stations as well;5;September 29, 2015
Grand & Unique Stations, Inexpensive way to get Around;Marble, granite, artworks, mosaics, bronze casts and chandeliers are not what one expects to see in a subway train station. The Moscow Metro started operating in 1935. Today, you have a choice of 10,000 trains daily spread over 196 stations. While it started out being a necessary adjunct to the transportation needs of the city, it has also served as a socialist propaganda machine and air raid shelters during the world war. Each station is unique. Definitely worth a visit and you could just see one, or do a whole day tour for 100 roubles - provided you don't exit the stations. mosmetro.ru is the official website for details of passes and route options. As anywhere else in Russia, the signage is not generous with English.Best tip: our family downloaded Google Translate on to our phones, and it was an enormous help. If you combine a translation app with physical maps you should be alright. The younger lot is more likely to be conversant with English, but we found Russians in general to be quite helpful. A Please and thank-you never hurt anybody, so here goes:Thank you: SpasibaPlease/ You're welcome: PozhaluistaHi: PrivetMore polite form of Hello: Zadra(v)stuvuityaStations, Komsomolskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Ploschad Revolyutsii - take your pick. If you do some research in advance, it's fun to note all the elements that carry a message: the working factories, productive farmers, sheaves of wheat etc. The station at Revolution Square has wonderful bronze casts, quite amazing to see in a metro station. Most people who pass by the bronze of the guard with his dog (on both sides of the platform pause long enough to pat the nose of the dog. For luck. That explains the gleaming muzzle. Travel off-peak hours in order to enjoy the stations, and based on all the warning signs, hang on to your valuables. We visited only three stations - should have done more research before going to Russia.;5;September 29, 2015
Very surprised!;I have always heard bad things about Metro but I was pleasantly surprised how clean everything was!  When we went it was not so busy so I didn't get to experience the huge crowds but even then there was a lot of people!  In one part it is actually palatial!  A must see even if you don't actually take the metro train.;5;September 29, 2015
Amazing metro system;I have to say as a person who lives in NY and takes the train often I was very used to the same old nasty train stations. But going to Moscow ans getting on the metro I have to say was a very pleasant experience. The trains are quick and they are very clean.;5;September 28, 2015
Moscow Bronzes;The metro in moscow is wicked the bronze statues deep underground are amazing worth the journey just to see these;5;September 28, 2015
amazing subways;We used Moscow metro readily.  It was safe but most of the signs were cyrilic.  occasional signs in Latin letters.   beautiful stations with themes.  Best way to get around.;5;September 28, 2015
just grab a ticket;The underground palace of Moscow. Just grab a cheap ticket and go from one station to the other and do not forget your camera. The most interesting stations are on the circle line. You can find descriptions on the net. I visited, between others: Komsomolskaya, Kievskaya, Bielorusskaya, Taganskaya.;5;September 28, 2015
Great architecture and wonderful maintenance;I happened to  visit few metro stations at Moscow( Arbatskaya, Park pobedy,Plosched Revolyuts ,partizanskaya) / wonderful architecture& well maintained /the trains run in time & the statues and the wall paintings at each metro station are excellent . only problem i faced was the availability of toilets in metro stations./ The escalators are so long& steep /they keep supervisors to monitor the escalators / we need one full day to visit most of the important metro stations/ but it is worth spending / very inexpensive also /with one ticket (100RUB) we can visit all metro stations in one day (provided if we don't exit from any station.);5;September 28, 2015
Moscow Metro;I have been Moscow Subway, one of a crowded subway and not easy to find the station if you cant read Kiril alphabeth but within few days you gonna get it easly.;4;September 28, 2015
Great;Magnificent underground railway. A train every 60 secs. Takes a while to understand coloured lines but after a few days it was great. 50 rubles per trip no matter how far. Great way to get around;5;September 28, 2015
Wow a museum that is also transportation;Very nice stations and wifi throughout make using the metro a blast. Don't forget to look up to see intricate stone work and designs in the walls.;5;September 27, 2015
Best public transport ever;This is the best public transport I have ever used. There is a train every 2 mins. I can only suggest that when you use it TAKE your time as the amount of people that use it 9 million a day, can make it seem daunting.  The staff and other users where great taking time to explain about what stop and platform to go to.The circle line is the best as it takes in the most beautiful train stations I have ever seen.This is a must thing to do when you are there.;5;September 27, 2015
A must;Soviet Union is alive and well under the streets of Moscow! This is a functional museum about Soviet Union and also a very beautiful.;5;September 26, 2015
We wish the London Underground was so beautiful!;We visited several of Moscow's Metro stations during a recent stay in the city & were very impressed by their grandeur. We saw bronze statues at one, mosaic ceilings at the next & beautiful chandeliers at another. The mosaics & statues all reflect Russia's character & strength including successes in the worlds of aviation, space exploration, sports & the Arts.  We tried imagining having such stations in London but just couldn't because we thought they would be subject to vandalism. In Moscow, however, we saw members of staff on every station as well as police often being about too, so the stations felt safe. As in the rest of Moscow, we also noted that the Metro was pretty clean & free of litter. We also noted that the trains were frequent, quick & very cheap to travel on!;5;September 26, 2015
Like a museum;For me you can spend a whole day visiting the metro stations or even just sitting at one of them and observing. Very crowded at times but people are very polite. Make sure to visit ploshchad revoltyusii.;4;September 26, 2015
Easy to navigate and cheap!;Definitely a reccomended way of getting around the city. It's very cheap. And once you know the Cyrillic lettering of the station you need to go to. It's just a case of following the map. Really enjoyed using it. The stations are incredibly beautiful as well;5;September 26, 2015
Uniqueness in every moscow metro, quite amazing structure and interior !;It is a must to experience the interior look of the different metro at Russia. Do not miss it!  However if you plan to take the trains there,  do be very careful.  We were very unfortunate to be victims of pickpockets. It happen so fast as we were being pushed out of trains when alighting. But overall,  the Moscow metros left a deep impression for us in terms of the uniqueness for different stations.;5;September 26, 2015
Definitely worth a visit;You will not see anywhere in the world so artful underground! It's important to choose the right lines. On some of them every stop is a piece of art. I had to get off on every stop. To admire and take a photo.;5;September 26, 2015
Very unique;Metro stations all throughout Moscow are a very unlike metro stations anywhere else in the world. They all look like art galleries and museums.;5;September 24, 2015
Great stations, great system;I took a tour(with a guide) of the subway system and was impressed with the finish and art in the stations.  10 times better than the ones in Rome (Italy).   Also, we used the metro to get around and to the airport express trains.;5;September 24, 2015
Visited by night;We are not very into organised tours but this was worth doing. We took 4 trips on the metro visiting the most beautiful stations ending up near Red Square to view the centre of Moscow by night. Afterwards we were taken to the Victory Park, also lit. Unforgettable!;4;September 24, 2015
Moscow Underground Rail;The Moscow Metro is an adventure in itself.  The Art Nouveau decor is great. the archways are decorated with statuary.  Be sure to rub the nose of the dog for good luck.  It's the one with the shiny nose. Dont miss the overhead decorative work as well. The trains are clean fast and frequent.;4;September 24, 2015
you must take a bilingual metro map with you before you travel;1st step.take a metro map with you they are not given free in Moscow..2nd step.before you hit the station platform make sure you know your destination station in crylic.there is no English after you descend into the system until you get on the metro train itself..3rd step.you are now on the train-some trains give a flashing guide above the doors indicating the next station -but not all.at all times keep a bilingual map with you as you are going to need it..also buy a multi trip card at the ticket booth indicating how many rides you want by using your fingers as a guide for 20 rides for instance..English is not often used in the metro..have patience you are going to get it wrong as it is not initially easy but I was in Moscow for 9 days and by 4th day I had it down;3;September 24, 2015
Best in the world;Even if you are in Moscow for a short time, have a driver and hate going underground, make sure to go down and see at least a couple of central stations. Ask locals which are most beautiful. Palaces and art museums under earth. My favorite are  Mayakovskay and ploshad Revolution. Absolutely sure you will be impressed.;5;September 23, 2015
Small art galleries;We went with a guide who stopped us a 5 different stations. They all had different themes. Some stations are plain so if you don't have a guide, you'll want to do some research to find out where to stop. Multiple ride tickets lower the ride cost from the 50 rubles for a single ride.;5;September 23, 2015
Unique Experience;The subway system is astonishing in that over 6 million use it daily and it very clean and extremely efficient.  The most interesting part is the variety of art in each station, the most beautiful being on the circle line.  Looking at a subway map those stations are in the top half of the circle.  Best to avoid rush hour time but it is a real experience.;4;September 23, 2015
Terrible and beautiful;The metro building is really amazing. But if you are with a kid in a stroller or someone in a wheelchair, just forget, it is almost impossible to go up and down the stairs, there is no elevator. The accessibility doesn't exist.;5;September 23, 2015
Good for a sight seeing visit but not for transportation purpose if you don't know Russian;It's a beautiful place to visit and experience. Different styles ranging from imperial palaces looking to Soviet era mosaic and statues adorned stations. It's a piece of Russian history at display. But, there's no English label whatsoever.  With a metro mobile app at hand, I can't match it's English names to Publicly displayed Russian name.  I couldn't figure where to stop and where to go next.  No, it's for a visit but not practical for someone don't know Russian;4;September 23, 2015
NOT TO BE MISSED!!!! ORNATE, IMMACULATE LAVISH SIGHTS TO BEHOLD!;This is especially rewarding for a European or North American tourist to experience as the stations themselves are of museum quality: elaborate, ornate, immaculate. There are about ten stations clustered around the heart of downtown that are truly unique and since each is themed (and designed) differently you will want to see them all. Easy and inexpensive since there's only one fare to pay (about 100 Rubles) --- it allows you to travel as much as you want so long as you don't exit one of the stations. The Lonely Planet Guide to Russia has a great tour of the stations and provides detailed descriptions of each. Only two recommendations: first is to go after 8pm in the evening or on a Sunday night when the number of commuters and travelers are minimal and second, take a subway map that uses the Russian alphabet for the station names so that you know where you are! (Otherwise it's easy to follow as the lines are all color coded).;5;September 23, 2015
Beautiful and full of superstition!;Wish we had had more time to go to more than one station! they have statues all over and the people are very superstitious, so many of them are very shiny for the numerous touchings they received for different kinds of good luck! if you rub a gun it will bring you money! LOL;5;September 22, 2015
From station to station;You actually cannot believe, that you are in a metro station, not in a museum. Beautiful statues everywhere, every station is a special attraction.;5;September 22, 2015
To visit or to be used everyday;If you are a tourist: you must see it. It s just not an option to skip the Moscow metro! (Few stations are of course better than others.. trust your guide)To be used every day: (having lived there a couple of years) the metro is more safe & clean than most of the Western EU metros ! And you add to that some extremely beautiful decoration and valuable pieces of history. However, few changes are sometimes long; metro is sometimes full of people & if you don't read cyrillic: you may need to ask your direction to othr people. However, compared to French & UK metro lines ... Moscow would tend to be above (to my mind).;5;September 22, 2015
Wow;This is the best subway one can ever imagine in terms of architecture and opulence.Had a Russian guide who explained the whole history .Indeed seeing Moscow without it is incomplete.Shampa;5;September 21, 2015
Very nice;It is a must to travel with the moscow metro.The stations in the centre of the town are very nice, fastuous.The trains itself look nice;5;September 21, 2015
Incredible Metro, great system, easy and cheap;If you like the novel "Metro 2033" you HAVE to go look at all the stations mentioned in the book, like I did. It was amazing, a memory for life. The station are SO beautiful, and it's so cheap to ride the metro! With a Troika card, it only costs 30 RUB/ride (about 0.45 dollar).;5;September 21, 2015
Disappointing;Made a special effort to visit some of the stations, but didn't find them remarkable. I advise you don't go out of your way.;2;September 21, 2015
Not your Average Metro;As part of our guided tour, we boarded at the station nearest the Kremlin and for 50 rubles (about a half dollar) you get an amazing experience. This station is grand & filled with bronzes & chandeliers from the Stalin era. Steep long escalators down. Clean stations. We got on and off at 3 stops to experience the different looks. Very easily done, then rode back to the city centre. Great fun for under a dollar! Not to be missed!;4;September 21, 2015
Impressive metro stations and efficient;A little difficult to navigate but they are beginning to put up English directions as well. Use google to navigate around. Google results are in Russian so you can use that to follow the signs. The color system is fairly simple to follow. The stations themselves are very impressive. I recommend the Revolution Place and Mayakovskaya;5;September 20, 2015
Metro in Moscow;You need to rub shoulders with the Muscovites, watching as the train glides by each station named only in Russian, the chandeliers hanging from the ceiling;4;September 20, 2015
beautiful, very complicated for persons who do not reed Cyrillic letters;Moscow Metro station are most beautiful stations i have ever seen. beside it it can be very confusing especially if you do not reed Cyrillic letters. during rush hours it can be quite a busy place to be. prepare your self with Cyrillic names of stations you want to come to and directions which to take, in order your travel much easier.;5;September 20, 2015
Best transportation in Moscow;The best way to get around in Moscow - fast, well organized and with beautiful stations. The stations look more like a museum than a public transport stop. Only problem could be the signs in cyrillic but the system is really easy to understand and is not misleading. This is the best way to visit a lot of places in Moscow as the metro covers a lot.Only don't get stuck in the peek hour traffic in there - if you are uncomfortable in small places and underground it could get scary.;5;September 20, 2015
worth visit;The Metro has about 20 lines in Moscow city. Regarding each metro station the design and template might be different.The funny point about the Metro stations is that there is no English signage , and reading Russian is not easy at all, but people esp young generation are eager to help.;4;September 20, 2015
Moscow Metro;It's an amazing thing. Two of its stations are in the world top ten most attractive underground stations. Communists built thing grand. Even though times are tough in Russia, nearly every station is being upgraded just now. You can get tours. Nice mosaics from the revolutionary days. Bronze statues. Chandeliers. They go fast, must touch 25Kms per hour before they have left the station. If you can't get a seat - HOLD ON. Cheap enough. One pass get you everywhere. One stop or 15 stops costs you the same. The electronic voucher you carry goes down one, every time you go through a barrier. The more you pay, the cheaper the trips.Noisy. I measured 86 decibels on an noise App on my phone.An experience;5;September 20, 2015
Impressive Metro, but you should learn Russian;Moscow Metro is one of the most impressive undergrounds in the world.Some stations are actually art galleries designed with paints and artistic decoration. The stations are very deep and I highly recommend you to stay stand on the escalator and do not look at the stairs down you because you will feel dizzy.The metro lines connect you with every part of the huge Moscow. Each line has a specific color which facilitate a bit the communication problem that I will highlight later. There a lot of connections between line that allows you to move from a line to another. You can download many free metro maps on your mobile devices and/or tablets.Another advantage is that the Metro is very fast and the time between one metro and another is 2-3 minutes. So do not run to catch a metro because the next one is on its way.Despite the fact that many lines have very old metros, but they are all well maintained.You can arrange a trip just to take the metro and step down in some stations. You will find recommendations about this in different touristic sites.The sole critical disadvantage is that underground all stations names, directions and instructions are in Cyrillic Alphabet and Russian language. I had to study the main letter to facilitate my mission. Moreover, the help of the Russian hotel concierge was necessary before every trip.My visit was in May 2014, So sorry for breaching TripAdvisor rules, but I thought this review is necessary;5;September 20, 2015
Amazing Metro;Over the past 3 days in Moscow, we,ve plucked up the courage to manoeuvre the Moscow metro. Most of the stations have a personality of their own, with marble walls and columns , or paintings and sculptures. Ther are v clean and well maintained. Without speaking English, we were able to get from our hotel (the Sheraton Palace ) to the Red Square  and back , without any trouble. Most  Moscovites are v helpful and with a lot of gesturing  and finger pointing, we managed. The escalators are extremely steep , and takes abit of getting used to. Not something for the faint -hearted! Travelling by metro is extremely cheap...about 50 rubles each way (about $1)  Visitors to Moscow should try this cheap alternative to taxis.;4;September 20, 2015
Ehh, does the job.;The stations are crowded and crawling with rude Russians. It takes some getting used to. But once you become accustomed to the subway isn't all that bad. At least they have WiFi, and the stations are very historical and clean. Worth seeing since driving in Russia means certain death.;3;September 19, 2015
Highlight of the trip;I must say this is even better than the Kremlin, all stations have historical meanings and amazing statues and drawing on the wall, deep and meaningful.  They were like the lobby of 5 star hotels and even better. Mesmerized its beauty and elegance way after the trip.  Highly recommend!;5;September 18, 2015
Great historic adventure;Looks like is difficult to move in metro due to the language but after a while you'll see is not. Just keep a make with your stations and how to write it in cirilix and go ahead. Art. Paints. Monuments. All amazing and free to take photos. Long tunnels and deep stairs! Get ready if you have vertigo! In general is safe but avoid the evening-night time.;5;September 18, 2015
Amazing, not your typical stations;Our group did this as an additional tour one evening.  It was so fascinating!  The tile, ceramic, mosaics, statues, artwork, chandeliers!  I would highly recommend a guided tour as there are so many things that will be pointed out and explained.  Well worth it!;5;September 17, 2015
An Underground Surprise;My husband I took advantage of the free tour of the metro. There are five stations that have significant decor.  They are on different metro lines and due to our  concern about lunderstanding signs and getting directions in English  we opted for a guide. The tou guide, Ellen, was great.  Interesting to see how the  'deStalinization' ' played out in the metro art.  Nothing like NYC subways. A bit like Grand Central Station though.  Train schedule is brisk - metro well utilized but the public.;5;September 17, 2015
Amazing ....a must see!;Something unique I would say s it is 3 stories down and maybe the world's longest escalator works there.First time a saw an escalator operator sitting in a proper control room and controling speed.Very clean and well maintaines.;5;September 17, 2015
Probably the worl'd's best subway;Daytime I waited no more than 50 seconds for the metro to come and pick me.You can use it to travel anywhere in the city: extremely organized and reliable.There are some great stations which serve as monuments or important historical moments or cultural figures.;5;September 17, 2015
Amazing experience - not a chore;Huge efficient network. Frequent trains.. over  3 days never waited more than a few minutes. Grand stations with amazing architecture many art deco like. Also cheap = load up a contactless card at a kiosk and away you go.. Lines colour coded but signage difficult as very little in western alphabet - however made travelling a fun experience rather than a chore.;5;September 16, 2015
Must see place;The metro in Moscow is just wonderful,mac cording to the guide 10 millions people use it everyday, it's very cheap also 50 Ruble per person per day take you anywhere you want to go and the metro station is just beautiful full of chandeliers and painting on walls and ceiling.;5;September 16, 2015
Moscow Metro;We were lucky enough to have our Moscow Guide take us on a Metro tour which included a short ride on a Metro train. The decorations and artworks to the walls and ceilings were amazing and varied. The lighting was also inspiring and we thoroughly enjoyed our visit.Not to be missed;5;September 15, 2015
Amazing;It poured with rain one evening so we stayed in...and went on a tour of all the beautiful underground stations (reccomended by our guide book). Truly amazing!;5;September 15, 2015
Just buy a three day ticket and gawp;The best four quid you can spend is on a three day metro pass, which lets you hop on and off at all of the beautiful and/or awe inspiring stations for as long as you need to photograph or just marvel. Truly a treat, spotlessly clean, very very safe (lots of cops) and the trains arrive about every three minutes, so no hanging around.;5;September 15, 2015
Required Riding;If you're in Moscow, do yourself a favor and get a local to show you how to use the metro. It's the cheapest, fastest, easiest way to navigate the city and the architecture is amazing.;5;September 15, 2015
Amazing, amazing, amazing;This is not the oldest metro in the world, nor the longest but it is possibly the most attractive. Many of these stations are fabulously decorated. There is so much to see, so much history. To take the best photos try to avoid rush hours and weekends. Best of all - it's free (apart from the cost of a single ticket which is less than 40p);5;September 15, 2015
Travel Moscow Metro to see art is a Must!;Buying a ticket entitles you to travel on all different trains, hopping on and off as many times as you like.  You have to get off and on to admire the underground stations, each one different from the next and magnificent lights, artwork, marble and some subtle propaganda adorn these architectural masterpieces.;5;September 15, 2015
A tourist attraction in itself - stunning.;Visited in September 2015 and previous visit was in May 1988. The Moscow Metro is as stunning as ever and a tourist attraction in its own right.Wondering in Moscow after the museums close or as a rainy day activity. Simply tour the Metro.Toured between 8pm and 11pm last Thursday. Each station seems to have something different to offer in the form of beautiful marbled panels, stained glass, enchanting mosaic patterns, ceramics or magnificent bronze statues.If you do not exit, one trip around  the metro system  can be bought for c50p . 5 trips for c30p each.;5;September 15, 2015
Moscow Metro;the metro is stunning and very easy to use just get down there and get on and off at will to see an extraordinary array of architecture, sculpture, mosaic and lighting;5;September 15, 2015
Marvellous Metro;We saw a few stations of the Moscow Metro and what an experience it was! Each station was different in style and decor and more beautiful than the earlier one. Besides being spotlessly clean and superbly designed, each station was a work of art. It was a breathtaking experience indeed.;5;September 15, 2015
An experience;The history and at architecture on the metro is stunning and well worth the visit. Would not have wanted to try this without the guide as it was incredibly busy - by all accounts 9 million people a day use it!Trains a bit tired and no station announcement in English to assist unlike other major cities (like Beijing).;5;September 15, 2015
"Subterranean Art-gallery Wonder...";I would happily corroborate previous reviews of this incredible feature of Moscow history - we were blown away by the Revolutionary art-works, lovingly and respectfully maintained in a working setting accommodating millions of commuters daily. Wonder of wonders? NO graffiti, NO garbage, NO cigarette butts, NO stench! One could easily forget one's location if not for the incessant subway trains every couple of minutes - all on schedule... I ran my fingers over the awesome escalator bannisters and they came away spotless... no dust? We Westerners could emulate this discipline...A little-known fact: these stations also served as a  subliminal brain-washing for the commuting public, who were perpetually reminded each and every day of the invincible and ascendant Soviet State, which controlled their everyday lives.A wonderful experience, not to be missed when in Moscow.;5;September 15, 2015
Must Visit;We travelled and travelled the heart of Moscow to see the stations. We would get down at every station and see/photograph the station and catch the next metro. As the service is great (one every 2 minutes), no time was wasted, The network is great with 11 lines and about 200 stations. The escalators were a sight to see and use, some even 100 metres long (almost gave me a vertigo feeling). To name a few, visit Mayakovskaya, , Kiyevskaya, Kiyevskaya, Electrozavodskaya, Komsomolskaya, Taganskaja, Arbatskaya, Ploshchad Revolyutsii (with its bronze statues),Park Pobedy (with the longest escalator, about 125 metres long - gave me a vertigo feeling) and many more are a must visit.;5;September 15, 2015
mind boggling underground that belong to 80 years ago;mind boggling underground that belong to 80 years ago with 12 lines and 327.5 km length.some stations decorated with statues and big chandeliers. if you decided to use Moscow metro maybe you will have some difficulties due to Russian language and complexity  i offer use google map along yandex metro map (metro.yandex.com);5;September 14, 2015
Wow;If only nyc and London metros were half as clean. The art is fantastic but most notable is no graffiti and NO trash. A pleasant trip thru the city for 70 cents. They have PRIDE in their Metro. I was told by a resident they they never abuse their metro. Nine million riders a DAY use it;5;September 13, 2015
Cool in the summer, warm in the winter;Experiance you must have... It is not a type of public transport it is a history museum with true arts and craft work. Trains arrive every 2 minutes, maps and signs in Russian and English, very easy to find right lane and exit. Works toll early morning (1am last train leave start of the line). Very reliable way of travel around Moscow any time and day.;5;September 12, 2015
OMG what a complex network of Metro- one of the oldest;travelled from Proletarskaya, Metro Mall to Kuznetsky Most vis Libyanka Station in the Europe's oldest Metro Tube, Oh My God what an experience. Never seen such fast tube through such a complex tube network.  It is fast. It is most in-expensive and it takes you there in almost a jiffy.  Reaching Red Square from the Metreo Mall Station - Proletarskaya was such a NO-TIME travel and comfortable too.  However it was not as clean as the Delhi Metro, if you are used to travelling in Delhi Metro.  One has to be a Russian literate to pass through the maze of stations as asking for directions from the non-English speaking public is quite a Herculean task.  Maybe the use of hands, the eye contact and a hard copy of Printed City map will help as it did to us.  We also experienced climbing the steepest escalator in the process.But is was quite an experience.  Every Station warned you of 'Beware of Pickpockets', but we did not experience any of such sorts, maybe we were lucky.;5;September 12, 2015
An underground Museum for 50p;This does not disappoint. The Soviet era artwork, be it mosaic, chandalier or statue, is fantastic. The scale of it all really takes your breath away.We toured line 5 (effectively, the circle line) on a Sunday evening before dinner and alighted in every station for jaw-dropping photos and sites. This takes roughly an hour to complete and each station is different, with many stations having certain themes. Just don't try this in the rush-hour!Entry is one price - 50 Roubles. There are ATM style machines to get a ticket and the language can be changed to English.The best thing about the whole Metro is the fact that there is no graffiti or vandalism; every Moscovite respects their heritage.;5;September 12, 2015
Adventure deep underground;My friend and I were staying in Moscow and visiting all the main attractions in a group. This did not include the Metro METPO so we decided to try the system, having been informed that this was worth a visit.The Brown line - a circle around the city- was our choice and the concierge at our hotel coloured in the best stations on the map.Buying tickets was easy and cheap at 50 roubles for one ride (50p). The hardest part was reading the long Russian words quickly enough, but we soon worked that out by counting stops!!The platforms are deep below ground with excellent escalators.They are very wide, room for thousands of commuters daily - avoid the rush hour - and some are spectacular. Marble walls, statues. along the platforms and chandeliers hanging along the main areas.The trains are very frequent, wider than the London underground but rather old and battered, rattly.  Warnings of pickpockets abound, but we felt very safe.A good experience for 50p!!;4;September 12, 2015
Great service in a wonderful public museum;Moscow Metro is defintiely a must see in this city. It is a public museum open 20 hours a day. Every station is a surprise. I would have spent weeks exploring each single station. The Metro service is absolutely excellent, always on time, very frequent trains. I always felt very safe both during the day and the night. Great!;5;September 11, 2015
this is a train station!!!!!;its hard to believe you are in a rail way station - it is just so so beautiful and jaw dropping in the detail of the mosaics and paintings;5;September 11, 2015
A must see in Moscow and an efficient way to reach your destination as well.;The legends are true, some of the Moscow metro stations were decorated in such a manner to provide comfortable, even elegant, refuge to Muscovites in times of trouble.  The marble floors, the bronze statues and the chandeliers are beautiful.  Main draw back is the noise provided by the moving trains, but then again, it is a subway.;5;September 10, 2015
Working museums! well maintained.;The Moscow metros are working museums. They are very organized, and is the lifeline of the transport system. It is also a boon for tourists as you can reach anywhere in Moscow with the metros. They are also well maintained and worth taking pictures in.;5;September 10, 2015
swarming,  but nice in weekend;moscow subway is the only one transport which is guratee you will on time at your destination.  but if you want lo look around better. do that in saturday or sunday,  when people traffic in low.;3;September 10, 2015
Moscow underground station;What a grand station, never have I seen such grandeur in an underground station and some of the statues and art were really good too.;5;September 9, 2015
The best way to move in Moscow;I'm writing this review on invitation by TripAdvisor, since I never thought before to review a metro system. Well, being Moscow a city of 12 million people, 2500 square km and not much regulated in terms of road traffic, its metro and trains system is the true blood pumping system of the city, delivering up to 9 million passengers every day. It has 12 lines and about 200 stations. Stations are usually broad and have a style of their own, especially those in the city center. Trains are very frequent and time to cross the city very predictable, unlikely when using road transport. What are the minuses then? Surely it is really crowded, especially in the rush hours, even though the frequency of trains is such that queues are quickly moving on. A big minus for foreigners is that everything is written and spoken in Russian, so it is key to have a metro map or an app (eg Yandex Metro) to use to find your way. And do not forget that there is no EXIT sign, but rather a mysterious "выход в город" one, which means exactly "exit to the city". And finally there are no efficient  automatic ticket machines and the best way to buy the different ticket types is to queue up at the ticket desks where the person will again only speak Russian. Just be prepared.;5;September 9, 2015
Visit To Moscow (and St. Petersburg) Metro;Absolutely a must!! Try to find time in Moscow as well as at St. Petersburg and take a tour of Metro! The aura, beauty and majestic of some of those underground bldgs is beyond description! Got to see it to believe it!! A must!!!!!!!!!!!!;5;September 9, 2015
Mired in the Metro;From someone who lived in Manhattan for ten years and just visited about 6 weeks ago, I find it incredible how SPOTLESSLY CLEAN the Moscow Metro is.  It was fascinating watching the different methods of cleaning.  One was to sprinkle sawdust across the floor and sweep it row by row with two workers with push brooms.  In addition to their cleanliness, they are very majestic and some are beautiful.  Some designed for propaganda, but still incredibly impressive--stained glass, bronze statues, marble floors, granite columns.  Definitely worth seeing top 5-6 stations.;5;September 9, 2015
Grand Art huge escalator down;Amazing place to see.  Mosaics and lighting .   Loved seeing beauty in a pedestrian place.  Go go go Russia before it becomes Westernized AND it is changing.  The Muscovites even smile at you sometimes;5;September 9, 2015
Best metro station;Moscow Metro station are very good in terms of infrastructure. They have one of the longest escalators. And they have about more then 10 metro lines which joins all place in Moscow. They also have affordable price for ticket which is fixed.I enjoyed my stay in Moscow for 6 weeks.;5;September 8, 2015
Interesting and well worth doing. The underbelly of Moscow's Subway;Last minute booking and a bit pricey but worth it. Guide was great and created a fun agenda.Tweaked it to be of interest to me. Well worth the walking tour.;5;September 8, 2015
Superb Combination of Art and Transportation;In this city with far too many cars the subway is the only viable means of transportation. Not only are the stations well kept and very beautiful, but the trains come and go as a well oiled clockwork! After having spent hours on the bus the metro was a great relief!;5;September 7, 2015
Good luck for signs in English;very easy if you know the language. Very confusing if you don't know Russian. There are no signs in English;3;September 7, 2015
3 days in Moscow using the Metro !;I was in a group of 8 people (plus a guide) from our hotel in Moscow to different locations using the Metro on each day.  I was totally amazed at how many people were using the Metro and it all went efficiently.  There can be a degree of noise with any Metro system, but what amazed me were the different stations.  Some had marble or bronze statues, and some had paintings or moziacs on them.  There is a circle line where most had different styles to each station.  You would find a station where it was all about the serviceman, then all about the labourers etc.  It is worth having a good look !!;4;September 7, 2015
Glamour commute;Great service.... metro trains every 3 minutes...( might help to understand a bit the Cyrillic Alphabet or have translate app on your phone)  ...cheap cheap cheap transport  and beautiful stations...(all metro lines are colour coded and numbered and directions to assist travelers aredisplayed on the floors as well as on usual visual boards);5;September 7, 2015
a great and informative way to circulate;In addition to providing a convenient, cheap and expeditious way of circulating in Moscow, one gains an insight into Russian life under the communist regime. Even if one does not intend to use it as a way of getting around, one should visit sime of the stations to get a glimpse into Russia under the communists.;4;September 6, 2015
Very Impressed with the Moscow Metro;Booked a tour through Viator to tour the Metro and the Bunker.  If you want to tour the Metro, it is very easy to do yourself.  Search for the top stations to visit if doing it yourself.  We visited about 8 stations during our tour.Each station has its own unique style.  The stations are very clean and the trains are efficient.  In addition, for 50 RUB per trip (less than 1 USD, it is a very affordable way to get around Moscow).  Don't leave Moscow without a trip on the Metro.  The signs are in Russian but armed with a map with English and Russian, it is very easy to navigate and there are people in the station if you point on a map where you want to go.Tickets can be bought at the machines and there is English.;5;September 6, 2015
Beautiful, each station is unique;The Moscow Metro is incredibly beautiful. Each station is different and unique. Chandeliers, marble, statues and art adorn each station. The metro is also relatively cheap. Unlike the London Underground, there are no price zones so one journey will be the same price no matter which station you get off at. Each metro has machines as you can choose the English language option to buy your tickets.;5;September 6, 2015
One of the great public transportation systems;Ultra clean underground railway network. Many of the stations are very ornamental in their decorations so a visit just to see them is more important than using the trains. Must confess Russian is hard to read so unless you are adventurous you may find navigation hard. Some lines have upgraded trains with English translation on-board. Amazing network inspired by my own British London Underground. Wish it was as clean and lovely as this.;5;September 6, 2015
Moscow Metro Station;Metro station in Moscow are quite interesting because they are built like palace.Each station has different interior.  I was surprised to know from my guide that few of them are approximately 300 feet under the ground and they were built 80 years back. Moscow Metro is second oldest metro in the world.If ever you have chance to visit Moscow you must have Metro Experience for sure.;4;September 6, 2015
Moscow Metro a Piece of Art in Every Station;If you don't speak or read Russian it might be intimidating to use the metro system.  We took a tour to visit the different metro stations. They are a piece of art, every station its wonderfully decorated and graffiti free. It was a great experience, and it was amazing to find out that there are 9 million people using the metro every day.  The metro is very cheap.;5;September 6, 2015
Fabulous, must visit;We went on a tour with 'Moscow Free Tours'. You have to pay for this but it is a MUST. Elena was brilliant. She showed us how to use the Metro (which is not so easy when you consider all the writing is in Cyrillic) but also the fabulously decorated stations. They were too spectacular to describe here, they were like museums/churches/Art Galleries/palaces. Spotlessly clean, even the tracks were litter, dirt, oil grime free. We then used the metro ourselves for the rest of the week, a bit tricky but as long as you read the Russian writings and had a Metro map it ended up as easy as London.;5;September 6, 2015
Magnificence from 1930's to 1950's;Designed to be showcases of Soviet success - they are a working museum of the Communist era. The metro map is relatively easy to follow, but we were fortunate to have an excellent Russian guide who planned our route to visit the most impressive stations - Mayakovskaya (art Deco), Novoslobodskaya (stained glass) - all the ones we saw were impressive, and the system is well used by Moscovites. Drinks/hot snacks bare available in transit passages.;5;September 5, 2015
Moscow Metro;For first timers: definitely avoid pick hours!!!!Be prepared for this experiment!!!  very very, and i mean it, crowded. be aware of pick pockets.  they work fats and are good at it.  you will not notice that your mobile phone or other items are missing until you search for them.;3;September 5, 2015
metro;in Moscow take the map of the metroall station have a name about some thing, like vodka there all the exibate are about the invite of vodka, chemistry and so onthe one that very spacial is near State Historical Museum it call revolutionin sine go to the blue line on your right, all there are statue of animalsthe is a dog with the owner and every one how goes inside thatch the dog for lake;5;September 5, 2015
Must do itinerary;I actually visited in Aug 2006.Have been to many metro station, subway station, LRT and etc...  I can still remember vividly the beautiful of metro stations in Moscow. Unlike mostly bored modern architecture, the beautiful architecture, the deepness, the cannot-see-the-end escalator  delight every moment you stepped into the station. Every station has its own theme and architecture, it is wide, deep and bright as Russian once planning to use it as bomb shelter. Don't need to purposely plan for the trip, just use metro as your primary transportation in Moscow, you will definitely enjoy the ride.;5;September 5, 2015
A 'must see';We were escorted by our guide to the Metro in Moscow who took us to some very splendid sites at different stations of the metro. The beautiful chandeliers, the wonderful use of marble and granite, the bronze statues and elegant archways and mirrors.  All were built to impress and this has certainly been achieved. On top of this great experience, the metro, although very crowded at times, is very easy to use. Don't miss this wonderful attraction.;4;September 5, 2015
Great choise to move in Moscow;It is a fast, cheap and really good transport! Traffic jam will not bore you. But i will not reccomend to visit it in weekdays, you may get into the "traffic jam" of the people.;5;September 4, 2015
Moscow Metro Art;Take the metro...leave it at some stations just to watch the art...cheapest way to see special stuff !;5;September 4, 2015
An Underground Museum;Moscow Metro is fascinating with many stations decorated with pieces of art.  To name a few, Mayakovskaya, Komsomolskaya and Kiyevskaya.  There are many more but, since the station names are only written in Russsian, it is quiet difficult to determine your route.  We used free smart phone applications which were very helpful.;5;September 4, 2015
Some magic stations to see. Great reliable service;Efficient service but get a Metro map that has both English and Cyrilic spelling because no signs are in English except Way Out. Look on the platform for additional guidance signs. Also the escalators are usually the way out to the street.;5;September 4, 2015
Fast and cheap, no english descriptions;Of course the metro stations are wonderfull, you can not miss them. Every station has his own look from classical to modern. The metro is very fast and you can access any part of the city. For a longer stay I will consider the 7 day ticket for 800 rub, which you can use also for buses. You can have troubles on the casa becouse nobody speaks english but after all it is not so dificult. The information system is quite selfexplaining so after one day you will be familliar with the metro. Only anoying thing the long distances by walk and diffusing exits to the town. There are no signs in english, so if you are not fammiliar with russian letters it is a bit difficult to get out on the right place.For photographs go on the evening or betven 11AM to 15PM then it is not so crowded.;5;September 4, 2015
Stunning stations and very cheap and easy to use;Wow!! The metro stations are stunning and incredibly clean and easy to use. After spending a week in Moscow it is definitely the easiest and cheapest way to travel around the city. We bought a 10 trip card for about £3 each.;5;September 3, 2015
Subway;One of the most beautiful subways in the world. Very unique and interesting. Try to avoid rush hours.;5;September 3, 2015
Fast and efficient;The Metro moved millions of people under the city... Saw people running for a train, there's one every 4-5 minutes! Great way to get around Moscow!;5;September 3, 2015
Amazing!;We had a list and a map of the most stunning locations on the Metro to visit and we were not disappointed. Some of the stations are stunning and I could have easily spent double the time down there that we did (we spent a day for our self guided tour)We also used the metro to get about and although a bit busy (and pushy) at times it could not be faulted.Anyone who travels in the UK will be surprised at the very cheap prices on the Moscow Metro which is another big Plus :)My major tip is that if you want to enjoy the metro and its architecture go at non peak times (ie: after 10:30 and before 16:00) and on a weekday;5;September 3, 2015
Palatial...;One has to be in a metro station to feel like a Royalty..  Beautiful paintings ,chandeliers, absolutely clean , mosaic work all starting from 19 Century...;5;September 3, 2015
Marvellous Metro;Any trip to Moscow would not be complete without a visit to a metro station.  Unlike the London tube Moscow's offering is clean, cheap and efficient.  The stations themselves are often adorned with chandeliers, paintings and statues.  the tracks are far under ground so the escalators are very long and steep. Beware though that the station names are usually written in Cyrillic writing making it difficult to understand where you are.  Moscovites are generally approachable and helpful but do bear in mind that they don't all speak English.;5;September 2, 2015
Beautiful and easy to use;I would highly suggest making use of the metro.  Traffic is horrible in Moscow and getting anywhere by car is very time consuming.  The layout of the metro lines are very clear and even if you are unable to read the Russian writing, it is easy to count your stops.  I think many of the stations also had English lettering on our last visit.  Very clean and safe.  Worth the adventure to see the amazing art in the different stations.  Buying your metro pass will be the most challenging.  We used hand signals for the amount of rides that we wanted to purchase.  Must use rubles for the transaction at the ticket window.  I guarantee you will not be the only people somewhat confused at the window.;5;September 1, 2015
A city to see once and cross it off your list;People were rude and the traffic is terrible. They want tourists but very few English speakers and little or no effort to welcome tourists.;2;September 1, 2015
metro heaven;The Moscow Metro is amazing. All the stations are eye catching-chandeliers,mosaics and sculture. The station names are on the wall opposite the door that opens. Buy an 11 trip pass at the KASSA and you can use it for  more than one person. It is very safe. Go to Park Pobedy station at night to see the illuminated Victory monuments and fountains and amazing station.;5;September 1, 2015
An outstanding transportation sytem;First and foremost the metro is a highly efficient very clean well run transportation sytem. What sets it apart from others is the artistic nature of the stations. They all reflect individual themes and one needs to ride it and visit a few stations to truly appreciate the desig. Even on a day to day basis there is extensive use of marble and granite through the stations.;5;September 1, 2015
A tribute to the Soviets;The Moscow Metro is truly a marvel in civil engineering. Built almost 100 years ago, it still works flawlessly today as not only the primary transportation network for millions of Muscovites, it is also an impressive showcase of artistic excellence.Every station is decked out in the finest marble with murals and statues. While one may not agree with the values and tactics of the Soviets, one cannot help but admire the work they have accomplished here.;5;September 1, 2015
Fast, Efficient, Cheap and CLEAN!;New York and London could learn a thing or two about their Metro/Subway/Tube from Moscow. First, it was very clean, especially when you consider how old it is. Second, was very efficient and convenient. Do NOT try to drive or take Taxi's unless there is not alternative. Traffic in Moscow is horrendous and it takes forever to get just a short distance. I was very surprised that if you missed a train it was only a couple of minutes until another came along in the same direction. Never waited more that a few minutes to get on the Metro. It was also not too crowded except at rush hour and it only cost about a $1 each way, to go anywhere in the system. As long as you did not leave the station, you could just keep travelling. Last but not least, there are several incredible stations that are absolutely beautiful. Each one has a different theme and you can line them up and see them all (at least the top 7) in a single morning or afternoon and never leave the Metro. Some tips:1. If you do not speak or read Russian, make sure you learn the symbols/names of where you want to go and plan your route ahead of time.2. If you don't want to use the ticket kiosks, the windows with the attendants works great, especially if you do not have the right change.3. Keep your eyes and ears open and hands on your bags and wallets! Prime place for pickpockets.4. Make sure you have a handy, one page map of the system and don't worry if you go in the wrong direction, you can always hop off and go back the other way for not additional rubles!5. Don't forget your camera!I recommend;5;September 1, 2015
Moscow metro stations..Station or museum ?;If you miss using the underground metro in Moscow you have missed it all .The metro stations are a series of museums . Each station has its own Chandelier,portraits ,Statues & its own peculiar false ceiling .All stations are top clean with free wi fi . They are in fact first class museums which people enjoy visiting daily ,to & from work or whatever place they choose !;5;September 1, 2015
impressive underground architecture;impressive sights up and down this metro systemthe old artitecture is something to behold, very impressive;5;September 1, 2015
Palaces for the people;WOW ! I normally don't really like to use the tube . If there's another way to get around a town I would always go for that option . Except in Moscow . Holy sh#t ! If you can get over the fact that Stalin used gazillions of Rubles to construct these 'palaces for the people' instead of feeding his people and kill a few less of them , you're in for a treat . Commuting in Moscow made me feel like royalty . Around every corner of those opulent Metro stations I expected to bump into an Opera or Ballet . It's crazy . And taking the metro is so unexpectedly cheap , especially considering the elegance of the surroundings . Whatever it is you are going to do in Moscow , whoever you are . . . make sure you will ride the tube at least once .;5;September 1, 2015
Invention which amazes;You haven't visit Moscow if you didn't take metro at least once. Some of the stations are really astonishing, better than the buildings. Metro is still crowded, but if you want to take a metro tour it's best to start about 6-7 pm or weekends,;5;September 1, 2015
Metro stations;One of the most beautiful metro stations! Just make sure you have a map with you so you don't get lost in the metro system;5;September 1, 2015
The most artistic metro stations in the world;You have to see the Moscow metro stations to believe how beautiful they are. We were stunned by the opulence of the interiors. No where else in the world do you see metro stations with chandeliers and art on the ceilings and sculptures and marble. There are quite a few of these stations and it is definitely worth taking a trip to have a look at the different themes;4;September 1, 2015
One of the best metro;Most of the reviews online only talk about some stations (eg: Mayakovskaya) but I assure you there are a LOT of beautiful stations. In fact, most of them have something to show, even if the style is somewhat similar. I've been going via almost all line colors, and taking a short break in random stations got us pleasant surprises: the architecture is big, heavy and expensive. Make sure you take your time, there's a lot to see.;5;August 31, 2015
Fantastic;So beautiful , with different themes for different stations. Be sure to have someone mark the most exceptional ones.Easy to negotiate the Meteo b yourself. Easily finished within an hour including the metro rides between stations.;5;August 31, 2015
Good attraction;Living in UAE, having a car and this summer 24/7 Wouldn't allow you to use metro this much, but this Moscow metro system is fantastic, apparently they have 11 lines, and some one told me every 3 mins there is a station so it's easier to estimate time if you are new to it;4;August 31, 2015
A Museum in Itself;I have never seen anything more splendid than the Moscow Metro. Immaculately clean, statues galore, paintings and chandeliers ! It is the most efficient way to get around, the trains are fast and go everywhere.  We had a tour guide with us otherwise we would not know which way to go. Signs are in Russian but also color coded.  So if you know the color of where you want to go you would be fine.  Absolutely an amazing and wonderful experience.;5;August 30, 2015
Hectic, beautiful and friendly;Apart from every station being magnificently unique, the efficiency can't be beat. Exploring the Metro lets you feel the pulse of Moscow and its history.;5;August 30, 2015
A place to visit;Very unusual metro stations . Each one has its character  and interesting to visit . The stations  are extremely deep . I did not see any facilities for handicaps ...it may exists but I have not seen any . All the name of the stations are in Russian .. So plan your trip before you take the train and count the stations . This is the easiest way to find your way . But if you ask the people for help they will do their best even thought they don't know the language .;4;August 30, 2015
SAVE 3 hours for this!;Every station different from the others.Some are true works of art.save 3 hours for visiting, especially Komsovolskaya and the central ones!;5;August 30, 2015
metro;Stunning beautiful but hard to understand if you don't have a basic knowledge of the language it's not a great idea.Cheap though. Only 100 rubles each ticket which you can buy in cards of 5 / 10 tickets. The staff are friendly and honest.Safe and well worth a visit;5;August 30, 2015
Beautiful stations;The metro easy to navigate without any knowledge of Russian.  Even if you don't want to use the metro to get somewhere, it is worth looking at just for utiful stations and the incredibly deep escalators.;5;August 30, 2015
Under ground palace;Just buy a ticket for 50rubels and discover the city life under the ground. The chandelier and mosaic art plus gold plated paintings differs the moscow metro from the others.Metro is absolutely crowded but u have to wait just  30 sec.Unfortunately there is no sign in english but russian are helpful if u show them your address in english they will help u.;4;August 30, 2015
An amazing experience;The moscow metro is indeed an attraction itself. The statues, the paintings, the chandeliers....everything is beautiful to look at. A rich atmosphere oozes from the walls themselves. The metro trains are very efficient. I found it very convenient and easy to follow, given i could read cyrillic. It was a great experience.;5;August 29, 2015
Metro stops;Very clean. It's easier if you can read russian. We took the metro to Izmailovo market. It was easier for us since my daughter spoke an read Russian. We are from New York and the Beauty  of the Russian Stations is beyond compare. Each station is named after a historical time, like revolution square etc. if you are adventurous this is recommended;5;August 29, 2015
Very reliable;Best way for transportation in Moscow. It covers the whole city . Very organised schedule. It keeps going up to 1 a.m;5;August 29, 2015
Nice;Its nice but i felt it is a bit over rated. And the escelators are a bit too long. It made me feel dizzy .;3;August 28, 2015
Architecurally-interesting metro stations;Took a group tour of Park Pobedy, Kievskaya, and Smolenskaya stations of the Moscow Metro. The Metro has very comprehensive coverage of the huge Moscow area at affordable price of RUB 50 (75 US cents or IDR 10,000) to travel between any stations in the network. The stations are dug very deep underground and accessed through very long escalators, it would be a very long walk up if electricity failed. The stations are mostly covered in marble and decorated with mosaics with certain historical/cultural themes relevant with the names of the station (eg Kievskaya station has mosaic with Kiev/Ukrainian themes). The train carriages themselves looks like Soviet relics from the 1970s.;3;August 28, 2015
Overwhelming palace and hub;The most efficient means of transportation for the masses in a huge city like Moscow. This ' palace of the People' is overwhelming. Don't miss such stations as Konsomolskaya, Belorruskaya and Smolenskaya;5;August 27, 2015
I love this thing so much;I want this service in my city. It's 50 euro cents into the metro and you can ride as many trains as you want In any direction. Couple this with really clean stations and trains every 2 minutes or less and I'm very jealous of this transport system.;5;August 27, 2015
Avoid the city traffic;Apart from the must see architecture, the metro system seemed a very efficient and easy way to get around the city. Easy to navigate, we worked out how to buy a day pass, and off we went. We got the feeling of a time warp as the stations and carriages appeared dated, but that just added to the charm of the experience!!;5;August 27, 2015
A must in a tourist's itinerary;Moscow Metro is one of the most amazing metros in the world. Nice and clean trains and very artistic stations. Could visit only 3 of these but were fully enamoured.;5;August 27, 2015
Moscow metro;What a grand creation and to think that this was done about 80 years ago. Spend about half a day visiting the various stations -- see the paintings, sculptures, chandeliers. And the escalators are awesome for their sheer depth.;5;August 27, 2015
Museum on wheels....;The most gorgeous metro in the world.  Tip:  Avoid the crowds at rush hour to really enjoy the stations and not get run over!  DO NOT TRAVEL AT THE RUSH!  It gets entirely too crowded and almost dangerous for people with mobility issues.;5;August 26, 2015
The best!!!;Moscow metropolitan is the best in world!!I have been in many capitals, but our best subway. It can be for foreigners seem a little pointer in the subway, but if you adjust, then everything becomes clear. But here the most beautiful stations are not similar to each other, each is unique!;5;August 26, 2015
Metros are not just for Trains;Get yourself a local guide and do the exotic Metro Stations of Moscow. Walk where Stalin walked, stand where he held wartime meetings and discover historic treasures in the mosaic pictures on the roof.;5;August 26, 2015
Used to go to work;Stayed a few stops away from work which was in the centre.The underground is pretty clean and has nice large ceilings with some great looking architecture.Worth using as it's much faster than trying to use the train!;4;August 26, 2015
Amazing;very beautiful ! you can't help by admire each and every metro station here ! everything is so beautiful here ! please do visit ..;5;August 26, 2015
So efficient;Such a good system of paying a flat rate per ride regardless of how far you go. This is also very cheap if you buy multiple at once. The trains are always on time and arrive within what seemed like 2 mins of each other. It's worth having a trip around the ring line hopping on and off to take pictures of the fantastic underground palaces.;5;August 26, 2015
Worth a definite visit but not part of paid tour;All the metro stations are very well maintained, and full of mosaics and chandeliers. The walls are of marble and granite of very high quality. Each station is different from the other. Do use the metro it is easy to use and transports quickly in comfort and at a very low cost. Uniform price of 50 rubles per journey of any length or duration as long as you do not exit the station.You will not spend more than 5 minutes looking up at the  ceilings and the walls because Russia is full of grandeur and what you see in the metro stations becomes routine.;4;August 26, 2015
Worth the cost and effort!;Definitely one of the unique sights here in Moscow. I've been to other countries before and could never comprehend why a metro station can be a tourist attraction..until I got here in Moscow! History runs deep in these metro stations, each with its own unique design and architecture. We've done a bit of research before and planned out which metro stations to visit. Spent 2 hours hopping on and off at 14 different metro stations. My favorites were the spotless marbles of Park Pobedy (dark blue line) and the colorful mosaics of Novoslobodskaya (brown line).To do the metro tour, buy a single metro ticket and hop on and off on the different stations. Do not exit the metro to avoid purchasing unnecessary tickets. Avoid rush hours too!;5;August 26, 2015
Metro maze;Our tour of the metro was lesson on its own.  The architecture and decoration are opulence abound.  Each station is different to the next with glass chandeliers, mosaics, stained glass windows and marble are on every wall, archway and escalator - wonderful!;4;August 25, 2015
Quite pretty;For a metro this is quite pretty. Nice ceiling frescoes too and chandeliers. We visited it in August 2015. You'll likely end up seeing it while getting wherever you need to go, I wouldn't specifically go to see it necessarily.;3;August 25, 2015
Awesome value for quickly getting around Moscow;Your biggest challenge will be learning Cyrillic so you can figure out which direction to go and finding your stop. Otherwise the stations are generally artistic marvels, fears of engineering and a tremendous value (50 Rubles today for a single trip). Ticket machines before the gates are even in English. Don't be shy and let the Moscow Metro whisk you to your next adventure.;5;August 24, 2015
Extraordinary Metro;One of the most amazing things to do in Moscow. Many stations are worth visiting and each and every one of them has something interesting to show. Ceilings, sculptures, wall paintings. Do not miss!!!;5;August 24, 2015
Opulence and History every stop;Although it wasn't specifically a Metro trip; one couldn't help but admire the different stations. Some so characteristically opulent from the pre Soviet era, art deco and some built during Stalin's era depicting mosaics and statues dedicated from the time. The detail has to be seen to be believed. Fantastic.;4;August 23, 2015
An underground treasure;The Moscow metro is a great way to travel around the city - relatively inexpensive, quick, easy to navigate, and extensive.  It is one of the older subway systems in the world and continues to expand.  Some of the older stations, especially those on the central circle line, are worth a visit to see the mosaics, the statues, the chandeliers, and other decorations.  Many reflect historic events of the period when they were built or are memorials to historic events.  We spent a few hours going from station to station, getting off at each one and taking in the art and architecture.  The escalator in the Park Pobedy station is incredible - it is soooo long.  Time well spent!;5;August 22, 2015
Underground Palaces;THey are not Metro Stations. Simply they are underground Palaces. Beautiful artworks, neat and clean, great expensive Chandeliers, statues, wide beautiful passageways with the most elegant arches. The Metro itself as trains is another wonderful thing. It is very fast, there is a train every one minute, it carries more than nine people every day. I used it very effectively, as I could reach any point in Moscow in no time.;5;August 22, 2015
Underground palaces;Absolutely awe inspiring. Each one has its own character and it seems each Moscovite has their favourites.  Coming from London I expected it to be hot and stuffy down there but no.  Nice and comfortable.;4;August 22, 2015
Every Station is Like a Museum;When I first went to Moscow, I was in awe when seeing the Metro and many of its stations.  I understand it is still that way.  It was built under Stalin, as a way to get people to their jobs.  But it is so much more than "a Subway", as in New York.  The stations are beautiful!;5;August 21, 2015
No where else in the world!;We spent a few hours travelling on the metro. For 50 rubles you are able to hop on and hop off at stations, take photos and then get back on a train and continue on. The stations are nothing short than amazing. The trains and stations are clean. A must do!;5;August 20, 2015
Be Sure to Ride the Rails;The single best activity in Moscow.A surprising & unforgettable experience -especially for an NYC subway rider.They're clean, safe, crowded & more like a museum experience. Don't miss the experience!;5;August 20, 2015
WOW!!!;It is absolutely awesome !! Every station has his own character and history. They are so deep you won't believe it.;5;August 19, 2015
Incredible;We were lucky enough to have a local friend show us around some of the highlights of the Moscow Metro.  However, it's very easy to navigate your way around and you can buy a travel card and load it up with a number of journeys very cheaply.  Many of the stations have chandeliers, mosaics and beautiful statues.  You simply can't leave Moscow without visiting some of the best stations.;4;August 19, 2015
Beautiful Underground City, Intimidating but Effective!;It took me a little bit to get comfortable with this amazing metro.  But it is the most effective method of transportation in Moscow.  It is also incredibly cheap.  Besides some of the metro stations are just ... a living usable museum.  Of course the cyrillic will make it a challenge but I would suggest taking baby steps to learn this metro system.  Start small and count the stations and number of stops.  If you make a mistake get on the other side of the platform and go back to your starting point.  ))))   Take a chance and explore!;5;August 19, 2015
The most beautiful metro in the world!;I Warmly recommend you to visit the metro in Moscow by yourself and not to pay for it, because it's very easy to do. You will enjoy the beautiful architecture of almost every central station! Especially the Belarusian "vakzal" station and the "Ukrainian vakzal" station.;5;August 19, 2015
Amazing and quick way to travel around Moscow;Most of the metro stations are very decorative, always very clean, the metro system is very efficient, fast, and punctual,the presence of police etc. on all the stations makes you feel safe. The metro is well worth a visit.;5;August 18, 2015
Save Time Save Money;In Moscow travel by road is always time consuming. The fast safe and most reliable way for visiting Red Square or near about places Moscow Metro is the best Solution for tourist. You have to get use to Buying Tickets  and the name of stations, they areIn Russian and in English too .One entry ticket is good enough for one journey.;5;August 18, 2015
Magnificent Metro Art & Interior Design;Navigating around the Metro in Moscow can be somewhat bewildering for new tourists, especially having to contend with signs in the (foreign to non-Russians) Cyrillic script. The service is very punctual with trains arriving about every minute-and-a-half but the maze of connecting lines (blue, red, grey, etc) takes some figuring out to get to different locations around the city. The real pleasure is in visiting the various underground stations to see the art work on the walls and ceilings which varies widely from station to station. Many have stupendous ornate decorations & some even grand chandeliers. The paintings bordered by beautiful gold-leaved frames & sculptures projected Soviet propagandist aims (eg, Lenin addressing the masses, heroic Soviet soldiers, workers & athletes representing "Homo Sovieticus", the idealised type of Soviet man). One such 1932 painting in Kiyevskaya Metro that especially caught my eye depicts Trotsky giving a speech with Stalin standing behind him (greatly ironic given Trotsky's fate at the hands of Stalin's henchmen in Mexico eight years later ). Ploshchad Revolutsii Metro's bronze sculptures of similarly heroic Soviet citizens are a good example of the Russian predisposition to rub particular parts of the sculpted figure for good luck.;4;August 17, 2015
Well worth the initial stress;To begin with it can be a bit baffling (it helped a LOT having an offline app that allowed us to see both the cyrilic station names and the latin alphabet versions) and the sheer volume of passengers can be overwhelming but with one train every 2 minutes or so and some of the most amazing architecture it's worth it!;5;August 16, 2015
beautiful history and lots of culture;Moscow - Russia - a country I was very skeptical about visiting after reading all the blogs on different websites. But to my surprise it is not as bad as they say it is. It is a beautiful country with a lot of history and culture. Right from the airport it was a pleasant experience. You get a SIM card at the airport itself - the boy's don't speak much English but do understand what you are looking for and were very helpful. Was petrified to take the airport express and metro as had read how it was only for the strong and to some extent I do agree with them. The airport express was excellent right on time easy to board lots of baggage space very spacious. You reach the city centre and that's where you gotta be a real soldier. First of all everything is written in Russian it difficult to understand with an English map. My suggestion just ask for help. The Russians are friendly and helpful people. From the police who don't speak much English but do understand if you show them where you gotta go. So my suggestion have both an English and Russian metro map. But the tough part is that the metro is a maze it's not just one or two levels underground at someplaces it's three levels down and confusing as the signage does not say go down and follow directions for level three. So basically the metro is very intricate, well connected but lots of walking and trust me when I say lots I mean it. Have your walking shoes ready. Its complicated. But once you've got the hang of it, it's fine. You get a metro card at the metro station a card for 5,10, 20 raids (rides). As all others said have your documents with you all the time, you could be asked anytime. Copies are fine. Moscow was very clean. No garbage strewn across the street. Roads were washed twice a day. Very clean. The metro stations are like museums each has a unique display or art and history. It's amazing. Very clean again. No stench, no dirt. The tourist attraction spots are clean too any it's incredible. Beautiful display of art. A lot of history. All in all Russia was a beautiful surprise.;5;August 16, 2015
Metro Art Museum iUnderground;The metros are amazing but it was disappointing not to be able to photograph them ..I believe that rule has changed but not sure .It is art you will see nowhere else in a metro ..stunning;5;August 16, 2015
Lovely.;Stunning, although a bit confusing if you don't read russian - but we got around just fine at the end!;5;August 15, 2015
A must-see in Moscow.;Very efficient,very clean,very affordable.A point of reference when the talk comes to metro systems.Only negative,the absence of latin characters in the signs.But it 's Ok.;4;August 14, 2015
In my opinion this is the most beautiful the underground in the world;The Moscow Metro (Moskovsky metropoliten) is off-street rail (mostly underground) public transport on electricity, historically the first and the largest metro in the USSR.  The first line opened on May 15, 1935.    It consists of 12 lines with a total length of 327.5 km. In the Moscow Metro 196 stations, 44 of which are recognized cultural heritage.   The Moscow metro is known as rich decoration a number of stations examples of art of socialist realism.   In my opinion this is the most beautiful the underground in the world;5;August 14, 2015
Subterranean palace;First of all, get a map in English and Russian. There are no directions in a foreign language - just Russian - so you will feel lost in the first minutes but once you get the logic, it is easy and adventurous. One ticket is 50 rubles (less than €1) and is enough to visit the main stations, as long as you don't get out. You can change lines so my advice is plan ahead where you want to go. If you prefer, get a pass with 5 trips (it has a discount: 180 rubles). Stations you shouldn't miss: Komsomolskaya, Ploshchad Revolyutsii, Kiyevskaya, Arbatskaya, Mayakovskaya (look up).Tips: avoid rush hour - visit in the evening or weekends. To be sure you're traveling in the right direction, check the arrow in the wall above the line, it points to where it's heading.Some stations are confusing because their names are different according to the line you're traveling in. Ex: ploshchad revolyutsil (line 3) is also teatralnaya (line 2) and okhotny ryad (line 1).In Kiyevskaya, the line worth visiting is the blue one (line 3). Confused? It might be, but if you're adventurous, it can be fun. If you prefer to play safe, get a tour guide. But be prepared to pay 50 times more...;4;August 14, 2015
The prettiest metro;The metro system is Extremely reliable plus it is a work of art. There are so many beautiful stations. Kievskaya (both halls of it), Novoslobodskaya and many others are worth getting off and take pictures. Just try to go not during rush hours - morning until about 10 AM and 5-7 pm. But overall people were tolerant to us - tourists who were on their way taking pictures. Kids ride free. Metro workers are very helpful. At one station our metro card has already expired and we did not know. Instead of sending us back to the book office to buy a new one the lady let us go for free. Definitely a great way to get around instead on ground transportation.;5;August 14, 2015
Awesome subway;The Russian metro system is quite huge, but it's architecture that's fashinating, it's grand and awesome. I made the mistake to have an english map (provided by the hotel) with all station's name in english. Most signs down there are written in cyrillic. The locals and the police are not of much help since the english skills in Russia is quite low in general. Anyways one can easily spend a day down there and be impressed by the stations.;4;August 14, 2015
Old, unique metro but with no escalators or elevators in many stops!!;Don't try to use the metro when you carry big suitcase. Many stops don't have escalators or elevators and you will have to carry your heavy luggage many stairs until the exit. It was unbelievable!!!;3;August 13, 2015
Super cheap and easy mass transit system;One of the best things about our recent visit to Moscow was that we became familiar with the world famous metro system. On previous trips to the city, which were all for work purposes, I'd never had time to get to grips with it. This time, however, armed with a better familiarity with the Cyrillic alphabet, we became pretty adept at finding our way around.First you have to buy a ticket and that's very easy. On the Moscow metro a ticket will take you as far as you want to go, including an infinite number of changes if you wish. A single ticket costs 50 roubles, (about 50p), regardless of the length of the journey and all you do at the ticket office is simply ask for the number of tickets you want. If you feel you'd like around 10 rides on the system during your stay in the city then ask for 10, (just holding up your fingers will suffice). You'll receive a single ticket which will have been stamped for 10 journeys. Every time you put your ticket through the turnstile to enter a station the ticket will have 1 credit deducted and the remaining amount will be displayed for you.Navigation around the different coloured lines is also very easy. Simply follow the signs to what line you want. The signs are displayed on the ground and overhead. Once on the correct line observe the direction you want to travel in by checking the end of the line station for each direction and away you go. It's so cheap, so easy and really quick. The trains turn up with a very high frequency and you can travel all over the city using the system. Brilliant and far superior to the London Tube.On top of its utilitarian convenience, the Moscow metro is a tourist attraction in its own right. Many of the world famous stations are magnificently adorned with lavish chandeliers and sculptures. Marble floors and walls are the norm. Travel around the inner ring brown line and get off at each of the 10 stations. They're all magnificent and remember that you can do that for the cost of just 1 journey, 50p!;5;August 13, 2015
Almost as good as the London Underground!;The Moscow Metro is known for its very ornate stations, as the guide books say 'an attraction in themselves'. I must have missed the best ones, but it was all very nice.Where the Moscow metro does excel is in terms of frequency. Trains follow one another through the tunnels often less than two minutes apart, and the system handles great crowds. You do need to factor in that the time spent getting to and from platform level (the stations are incredibly deep) is generally the longest part of the trip. Fares are pretty reasonable, and I found the ticket window staff to be fairly helpful. It's a good idea to buy a ticket or pass allowing multiple journeys. These are issued on disposable smartcards. Also, if you see a ticket barrier 'open', do not be tempted to walk through it without 'touching in'. If you do, metal bars will suddenly close and you will be wacked in the knees, or worse, trapped for all to see!;4;August 13, 2015
It works!;It’s a bit old fashioned but serving successfully more than 10 million people. Every two or three minutes train leaves any station during day. As it was planned and build in former times, every change of line means to pass through long corridors and frequent stairways.;4;August 13, 2015
Almost every day there:);I've been in London, Paris, NY, Frankfurt and other, Moscow metro is the most beautiful and easy use I've been. Almost all stations are different, some have very unique mosaic, some - statues (for example legendary dogs on "Ploschad revolution")I love our metro, you definitely should see it!;5;August 13, 2015
You will be amazed with underground castles;Even you can do this on your own (and pretty cheap as one ticket would sufice) I recommend guided tour, much more informative and you will see selected stations. Probably younger generation would not find this interesting, but to me (and I have seen Moscow metro before) this was amazing close to two hours. Grandour of the metro stations built end of 30's and i 40's (some of them during II World War) is overwhelming. Marble, coloured glass, socialist insignia, large chendaliers, old telephone boots on some stations (probably not operational now) were (and still are) a show-off of SSSR to the rest of the world and a clear message to working class: look how our workers enjoy going to their work places. In some stations you hear music playing through large brass grills. I hardly can imagine how impressive this must have been some 70-75 years ago! One has to ask himself would the world be better place if only it was not Stalin and his followers in power? Yet again, Stalin's successor Hruschov gave up builing such a beautiful stations, to save money (some of them still very expensive in marble, but cold and without beauty). You do not find a pair to the style of these metro stations. My private favourite: station Mayakovskaya.;4;August 13, 2015
State of Art .. with means of transportation));Moscow metro is most definitely the place to visit ..as well as a useful means of public transportation. Especially the stations that were build in the period from 1935-55..The project existed early on, in the late of the 1800's. Moscow was growing fast and the system of ground transportation was something that was of a great need  during  the Czarist Russia. It was not before the new Soviet Republic took the lead in Moscow reconstruction , the plan was fulfilled . At the time they ( Moscow authorities) wanted to create something monumental , to go along with the spirit of a newly born country. You should visit Plodhad Revoluzii ( revolution square ) or Ploshad Mayakovskogo ( Mayakovsky square) ... to see that great artistic expression of the social realism at its best .;5;August 12, 2015
Must see :);Nothing more to say, you need to see it for yourself, but: beware of rush hours! The older stations which are closest to city center are more popular with tourists; however, some of the "new" stations can are beautiful, too. (I,personally, love the newly opened Troparevo, where I come from ;-) ) Vorobievy Gory is beautiful, too, right now featuring a small excibition about space exploration. (these excibitions change) I suggest to take a look on the internet to note the stations you want to see, get a map and mark those stations so you would not forget all those difficult names :);5;August 12, 2015
Enjoyed getting around by myself!;Once I got the hang of parsing out words like "skaya" and figuring out some of the alphabet, I really got out and about a bit and I loved every second of it!! Some of the stations have amazing architecture and the murals and artwork are a treat if you're into that sort of thing (admittedly, I am). One word of caution, though, is not to think of the stations like layers in a cake. Because the system grew organically over many, many years, the station map might show several stops together when they're actually in the same vicinity, so the transfer itself can take some walking -- enough that you'll think you're headed in the wrong direction or made a mistake. More than likely you didn't. It's just the Moscow metro. Anyway, don't let the language or the Cyrillic alphabet stop you from venturing onto the metro. If you don't want to get too crazy, just use it to get around between places like Arbat, Tretyakov, and Kremlin.  Trust me, I don't speak or read Russian and I enjoyed it immensely.;5;August 11, 2015
Impressive and extremely affordable;For about $.50 you can spend inside all day. Travel from one station to the other. Every station on itself is a art. Train leaves station every two minutes. You never will be late to the next train. Just come out of the train and enjoy.;4;August 11, 2015
Cheap, fast and frequent;The Moscow metro is superb. The trains ran so frequently that I don't think I ever had to wait more than a minute for a train. The trains are old but are certainly clean and safe. The stations are amazing and time should definitely be expended visiting the more impressive ones. A single ride is 50 rubles but only 30 if you buy the metro card which I highly recommend as you can get around the city with ease. Use the Yandex metro app if you are unfamiliar with Russian or cyrillic.;5;August 11, 2015
Best way for the transport;The Moscow's network of the metro lines are great. You can travel easy and even you can use free wifi .I can recommend to see the station Majakovskogo.;5;August 11, 2015
Wonderful and Very Intresting;Moscow's Metro is very interesting and beautiful. It is like a palace. it is very perfect and fast. but too noisy . every 80 seconds you can see another train in the same way. (time between leave and receive next train is only 90 seconds);5;August 10, 2015
A unique metro;80 years ago the Communist create an underground paradise with chandeliers, marble, mosaics and heroic statues for the workers... The speed of the mechanical stairs is impressive.;5;August 9, 2015
Beautiful and cheap transport system.;Some of the mertro stations are like museums wide and richly decorated with chandeliers and sculptures. The tickets are cheap. You can travel throughout the system with same ticket.;4;August 9, 2015
Spectacular architecture;Best stations:NovoslobodskayaMayakovskayaTeatralnayaKomsomolskayaDon't go during rush hour.I think after 9 pm is the best time;5;August 9, 2015
Beautiful for a metro & clean;I was there on a Sunday afternoon, but it felt safe.  Very clean.  The metro stops are decorated quite impressive with beautiful statues & lots of marble.;5;August 9, 2015
Moscow underworld;If you visit Moscow you cannot and should not miss the "Moscow-under". Metro is the only option to cover and discover the city it is also a monument to the era and a cultural/anthropological landmark.;5;August 9, 2015
Moscow pride;The best thing to see/visit in Moscow  never was sightseeing attraction. Transport system for millions the main Moscow place to visit for turists. Unique design of each station force you to visit more and more. But remember most of people hurry up to work.;5;August 9, 2015
Special but a bit overrated;The metrostations are certainly special, but they lack the "art aspect". It is cheap decoration with a nationalistic message. Interesting, certainly,  but no palace for the people as Stalin said.;4;August 9, 2015
like a museum;decorated with paintings and statues and gives you the sense of being in a museum.it is one of the oldest metros in the world.do not miss it ,if you travel to Moscow .;4;August 9, 2015
A tourist attraction as well as a transport system;The Moscow Metro is amazing. It has a very extensive network across the city and the same ticket can get you on buses and trolley buses. The stations very mainly built in Soviet times and some of them are extremely beautiful, so much so, that there are tours of the different stations. The minimum cost of a ticket for unlimited length of journeys is about £0.40. London can learn a lot about how a Metro system should be run. As well as the low cost, the trains are very frequent.;5;August 8, 2015
Best option to travel in Moscow;Yes it is very crowded but still is the best option to travel in Moscow. Most of the stations have unique design. One ticket is enough to see all of them.;5;August 8, 2015
spectacular;every time we visit Moscow, my son wants to have at least a few metro rides. it does seem strange to me (I  grew up in the Soviet Union)... However, it is a clean and beautiful place and for a tourist it is very interesting. I especially like those mosaics at Kiyevskaya  Station.  Pictures of life that never existed, only in the heads of communists...;5;August 6, 2015
Mojestic Underground;Moscow metro is unlike any other metro network I have ever been to. It is very grand and mojestic, whilst being very clean and well kept.Can be difficult to understand the signs if you have never used an underground network before as it is all in Russian.Great photo opportunity of this amazing underground system.;4;August 6, 2015
amazing place;culture and culture and more culture in side, it is a piece of memories and history everywhere, handcrafted allover, it can tell us how life was by the time.;4;August 6, 2015
Its like a designer showroom;Although its tricky to get past the language hurdle on the moscow metro, once you do - its a treat. It certainly is the most beautiful metro with the most stunning stations I have ever seen- considering I have visited more than 50 cities in the world with metro. The metros are clean with stations having gorgeous chandeliers. The prices are reasonable too. Now for the trick to get past the language hurdle. Simple load the yandex metro app on your phone. It has a english map and a russian map. Use the Russian map to match what is written on the metros and change it to english to understand what is written. Take a 10 ticket booklet which costs only 360 roubles (USD 7 approx.) . This will get you past for two days in Moscow.;5;August 5, 2015
Very cheap pricing;We found the Metro pricing very reasonable and the trains were very regular and quick. The stations were cavernous compares to London and Paris.Once we figured out reading a bit of Russian it was great.;4;August 5, 2015
The most beautiful and rich metro in the world;I was many times in Moscow and in Moscow metro. I saw many metro in many other countries but I think the best metro in the world is in Moscow. Amazing. Every station different monuments . Very rich decoration. Tickets cost was very cheep.;5;August 5, 2015
Moscow metro;Wonderful stations. Very clean. Some stations had beautiful chandeliers. People were very kind and gave me a seat. New York is so dirty and crowded I was very surprised that people were so polite.;5;August 5, 2015
Worst metro EVER;It's the worst metro system I've ever seen. It's very very loud, sticky, full  (don't even think about sitting, you are very lucky if you manage to enter the train). Old Soviet trains from 60s...there are also new Russian-built trains, but they are very loud as well, the air conditioning is inefficient and often doesnt work. awful navigation, only in Russian (even for Russians it's impossible to navigate, no logic ).  Crowds of policemen on every station looking for bombs. Every time after a station announcement it's been said "if you see any suspicious object let the driver know". Very high tension... security checks like in an airport.   The metro is not barrier-free, even many new stations are been built without an elevator. There are 5 or 6 stations with elevators but they are always out of order. Worst metro ever;1;August 4, 2015
Every station - different story;It was like a tour. Every new station new story, new architectural art. Easy to use, clear info on screens how much trips left on card.;4;August 3, 2015
Soviet Propaganda Art in the peoples' palace;I do love the propaganda art of the So it times and no where is it better displayed than in the Moscow Metro stations.  Happy, young p, healthy citizens...workers, farmers, students, mothers, soldiers...all together celebrating the great USSR.  The craftsmanship, colors, and scale of the project is wonderful.  A must see in Moscow...one of my top sights.  The metro system is easy to use.  Learn your stops in Cyrillic - count them.  Cost is 38Rubles for as long as you ride without exiting.  This makes seeing the stations easy, just hop off, look around and hop back on.  The red line has some of the best stations.;5;August 2, 2015
Moscow's Ornate Metro;Moscow seems to be one big traffic jam as cars line bumper to bumper so it pays to do a little homework when travelling round Moscow on the underground.  Yes, the lines are coloured but the names are very confusing so if you need to ask for help or directions, it does pay to have it written down.  The stations we used were all very clean and it is a pleasure to see the mosaic, marbles and suspending ceiling lights.;4;August 2, 2015
I love Moscow's metro stations;Beautiful and interesting. Metro stations are individual and think that the metro is back from Stalin's Russia in 1935.;2;August 2, 2015
UNBELIEVABLY GRAND;Once you work out how to buy tickets, or a card for 11-31 trips, then the you'll find the Metro one of the best experiences you've ever had.  As older travelers, we were delighted to find that Muscovites actually respect their elders.  We are in our late sixties and were offered seats every time we stepped onto the trains.  The trains run often, and by often I mean every thirty seconds on the busy line during the day.  Yes, I'm not exaggerating;  thirty seconds.  On the slower lines you may have to wait two minutes for the next train!  If only they could even think about that in Australia !  The stations themselves are wonderful pieces of architecture, we'll worth seeing and spending a day touring the Metro.One word of advice.  Get a map before you leave home with the stations in both Latin and Cyrillic which will be a great help, as you won't get one over there.;5;August 2, 2015
Art in Moscow Subway/Metro Stations;The Moscow metro stations are filled with amazing mosaic and painted artwork, commissioned in the Soviet Era to depict war heroes and life in the USSR. Viewing the artwork is like stepping  into a museum.  To take full advantage of them, hire a guide who can show you pictures of what was portrayed there originally during the Stalin era and how they've changed it since.  Try to avoid rush hour as it is thronged with people and very difficult to stand still and look up.;4;August 1, 2015
Impressive with one huge handicap;The stations of the metro in Moscow are very impressive, there is no doubt about that. The trains run frequently and are on time. However if traveling with kids in trolleys you better don't use it as almost none of the stairs are equipped accordingly. By the way, that also counts for almost all underpasses in the city of Moscow as well.;3;August 1, 2015
Beautiful;Not only is it beautifully decorated t is also very clean. If you want to use the metro don't be alarmed. You can download an app on your mobile 'metro'. It helps alot. Also get the places you want to go to in Russian and english as this will help alot. Ticket ladies are very friendly and helpful although they cannot understand you. Just put up your fingers for the many rides you want.;5;August 1, 2015
Fast and beautiful;The Moscow metro stations are one if the fastest and definitely the most beautiful I have seen so far. The architecture was brilliant then and now. Trains are so efficient that I never have to wait more than 2 minutes for a train thus far. Though it's quite noisy but the efficiency triumph the noise pollution. Do not fear that you do not know Russian. Download the Yandex metro app which has station names both in English and Russian.  The app can be used offline. If in doubt, ask the staff at the metro who are usually situated at the foot of each escalator. No fear if you have huge luggages as the stations are equipped with escalators!;5;August 1, 2015
Economical!;Go on the brown circle as many stations are amazing. And to visit several stations, it only costs 50 rubles because you never have to leave the station, so it's super economical and there's a lot to see! There aren't exactly plaques to explain what you are looking at but beautiful nonetheless. Truly a Moscow experience. Avoid rush hours.;5;July 30, 2015
Free wifi!;All metro lines in Moscow offers free wifi, which can be a great help for tourists!Besides, I think once in a life time it's important to go do down the elevator which takes 2min to get to the platform since it acts also as a bomb shelter...Metro is super retro and it's quite enjoyable being on it.Since traffic in Moscow can be a pain, moving around with the metro could be a wise idea too...;4;July 30, 2015
Beautiful Metro station decor;There are some 5 beautifully decorated Metro stations in Moscow.  Worth the visit, but I do suggest you go with a guide.  The station names are impossible to read and onehas to know which way to go to get to see them;4;July 30, 2015
Download the App, but a ticket and off you go!;What an amazing transportation system incorporating metro stops that can only be described as Museum!Firstly, download the Free Yandex Metro app and open up the Moscow Metro pages.Now you are ready to explore without getting lost!I carry a Canon camera which is just full of amazing photos but my iPhone remains in my pocket, thus not much visual appetisers to share here now.3 notable things; 1) the acceleration of the metro from zero! 2) it is really safe with a large police presence 3) each metro is totally different with amazing escalators and statues;5;July 28, 2015
IMPRESSIVE;We paid for a guide-tour in Engish as we had difficulty with the lanquage and couldn't use Metro. Is amazing in what deep is builded ! Imagine that only the electrical- stairs is 70 metres hight. Some stations are really like gallery's rooms. Great art on the walls and on glass as well from history and everyday life of Russia. Trains are of incredible high-speed. Is really recommended to see it.;5;July 28, 2015
Experience not to be missed;Moscow metro is one of the oldest metro rail system in the world, predating WW2, if I'm not wrong and the most of the stations inside the central ring of the metro network at least have a history of its own to share, plus each metro station, if one observes properly has different decor altogether - none resembles the other, quite unlike the plain-jane we have here in New Delhi.Stations, directions are properly marked and are in both Russian AND English ! Incase one intends to use it a lot, alongwith the buses, I recommend buying a 40 or a 60 trip card which one can use here in metro and the buses too - a little cheaper and convenient option;4;July 28, 2015
Do not miss that!!;Moscow metro is the best outstanding places I have ever seen in my life. I recommend to everybody go to Moscow. It is full of art.;5;July 27, 2015
Amazing!;Underground Metro stations in Moscow are really amazing, a work of art!!!We visited 7 stations. Our local tour guide told us that one of the stations (can't remember which one) with the depth of 100 meters, consists of 4 levels.Beware of pickpockets!!!!!;5;July 26, 2015
Fantastic;Very nice , clean and fast the disadvantage is only no other languages available on metro or anyone can help you in other language.;5;July 25, 2015
Explore, see the hidden beauty, expect lots of steps, enter for 50 rubles and stay until you exit!;I suspect it would be possible to spend several days exploring the stations on the Moscow Metro.Every one is a surprise, and of course you can continue as much as you like for 50 Rubles! (until you exit!)I have now discovered that it is possible for a train to change! I was on a train on line 2, which became a line 11 train!It doesn't usually matter if you go to the wrong platform, you can always get off at the next station and swap!Beware of which entrance you use at a station, it's not always possible to change to a different line once you have entered - e'g'. Arbatskaya, the entrance closest to the junction of Arbat and New Arbat is for line 4 only.;4;July 25, 2015
Best metro with historic elements;OMG was the reaction when i first visited. The escalators are huge, the metro is underground and hence there are this escalators which are like 10 stories into the ground. Each station is unique and are greatly built and maintained. This shows the grandeur of Russia in history. The frequency is also great and easy to understand. There are not many names in english but its just a matching game if you get yourself a metro map.;5;July 25, 2015
Top Experience in Moscow;A wonderful network of metro lines with palatial stations constructed with marbles, decorated with chandeliers, stained glass, sculptures, mosaics, reliefs, etc.  Don’t forget the equally amazing floors.  Only one ticket is needed to hop as many beautiful stops as you’d like if you don’t exit the stations.  Research before you go and pick out the ones interest you, and bring your camera – you are on a journey of exciting discovery.Buy a multi-journey ticket if you’ll rely on the metro during your stay; it’s good for multiple people as well.  Prices are clearly posted at the ticket windows.  Stations are deep under the ground.  Each stop is unique, but grand and beautiful in its own way.  Trains are very frequent (every couple of minutes).  The trains on the circle line are newer and quieter with stops marked/signaled in each car.  Transfers may involve some walking or climbing stairs.  I’d wear a money-belt to be safe.  There were security guards at most, if not all, of the stops.  I saw them stop people who look central Asian, and inspect their IDs and documents.  Cyrillic alphabet would prove very helpful when you navigate this underground wonderland.;5;July 24, 2015
Museum + effective transportation;Without Metro, the life in Moscow would be surely unbearable. Very effective transportation system and still very cheap. Most of the stations in the center looks looks like a museum. My favorite stations are Komsomolskaya, Kievskaya, Mayakovskaya, Belorusskaya );5;July 24, 2015
Metro station hopping;First of all the metro system is a life saver in the city. Offers cheap, fast and clean transportation with a very large network. Moreover, in my opinion, Moscow metro stations are must see places in Moscow. Each station is decorated in different style. My top 5 list is Dostoyevskaya, Kievskaya, Mayakovskaya, Ploshchad Revolutsii and Novokuznetskaya. I recommend to do a 1-2hour station hopping  during late night hours (after 10 PM - the network operates until 1:30 AM), when the stations are mostly empty.;5;July 22, 2015
Thoroughly recommended;Such amazing decoration, fascinating architecture and historical decoration.  Incredible to think that the building started to take place within the Communist regime when there is such an imperial influence in places.  So, so clean as well and the guide at Mendeleevskaya was so helpful taking me and a friend to our respective platforms - she actually travelled with him to the airport metro station.  I visited one station on my own and, as a group, we visited five or six stations on our tour.;5;July 22, 2015
Take your camera;The stations on the Moscow metro are works of art. I didn't get around to them all so can't vouch if they're all unique but certainly every station I passed through had an individual design. Chandeliers, sculptures, murals, frescoes - you'll be blown away by the decorations and the architecture. You can take a guided tour if you're that way inclined, or just research the best stations online first. Some practical tips about using the Metro - if you're travelling as a couple you only need buy one pass. It's standard practice to swipe the pass and then hand it to your significant other for them to swipe and enter. You don't need to swipe on exit. The pass just needs enough credit for you both and standard fare is 50 rubles per person per trip. You can buy tickets at a vending machine inside the station and you can select English information. Most of the machines will not accept credit cards and only take relatively small notes. Most station entrances also have ticket offices. Just indicate the number of tickets you want and it's all good.The stations, in the main, are a long way underground. Heading down such steep and long escalators can be a little confronting.It really helps to have a little understanding of the Cyrillic alphabet - just so you can recognise which station you want to head towards and choose the correct platform. The exit signs are also only in Russian. The lines are colour coded so making transfers, in the main, is pretty straightforward. If you're looking for the exit, make sure the sign says so (you'll be able to recognise the word fairly easily), otherwise you'll be probably heading for a transfer to another line.Some of the walks between lines can be quite long. Don't be alarmed. Also, when you're entering a station, looking for a particular line, there may only be one option from street level. You need to head down to the platforms where you'll then see directions to the other lines.Having said all that, we took a wrong turn only once - and we were able to double back and easily rectify our mistake. Don't rush if there's a train at your platform - the trains are incredibly frequent. You won't have to wait more than two minutes.Enjoy. It's a treat.;5;July 22, 2015
Amazing!;Must visit several stations, fantastic architecture, it transports you to another era, very impressive!;5;July 21, 2015
Nice nice;Greattttttt.its not a metro its a museum. Take care of your bages and pockets becase of thives. Before go there read and study about different stations.in each station you could see lovelyyyy arts.do not miss it.;5;July 21, 2015
Fascinating;It is worth visiting some of the Undergroung Moscow Stations, wide corridors, fascinating architecture impeccably kept.;5;July 21, 2015
Moscow metro touring;Not all, but quite some stations of the Moscow metro are worth visiting.Note that the same station for a different line has another name. Artwork, mostly from communist times is worth visiting. I added some pictures from different stations. Try to get a list of stations that are worth visiting, or get off the train at every station to look if that station is worth a longer visit;5;July 20, 2015
WOW;The Moscow Metro was a real highlight.  Every station looks like a theater or opera house.  Amazingly clean.  A train comes every 90 seconds.  It's also quite inexpensive.;5;July 20, 2015
Incredible Metro stations;We had a guided tour round some of the Metro Stations. They were amazing. They had pictures, mosaics, sculptures, stained glass etc. well worth a visit.;5;July 19, 2015
Navigating the Metro in Moscow;Very easy to navigate once you buy your day pass. There are no instructions in English- everything is in Russion, hard to understand. We hired a university student that knew English to show us around for half a day. She took us to buy our passes, showed us how to ride the Metro, took us around Red Square,and even showed us where to buy water & food I expensively.we learned a lot in those 3-4 hours.;5;July 18, 2015
The best metro we have seen!;The Brown or Circle Line has most of the outstanding ones...with stained glass, mosaics, sculptures, etc. Don't tour during rush hours, though! Saturday, early, or Sunday is probably better.;5;July 18, 2015
The perfect rainy day option;Rather than braving the monsoon like summer rain we descended into the Moscow Metro and rode the train stopping off at all the exquisite and glorious stations that moscow has an abundance of. Trains come every 90 seconds so we could afford to take our time and really have a look at the different decorations - murals, mosaics,carved marble, bronzes. One station uses the ribs from a Zeppelin!  Take special notice of the lights. Even the simple stations tend to have stunning lights.  And all this for the cost of one tube ticket 50 roubles;5;July 17, 2015
Would you believe a subway like a gallery?;They claim the Moscow subway is the deepest    Not sure about that but it was certainly one of the cleanest I've ever seen!  The types and quality of the artwork - different at each station - is beautiful. We saw bronze statues, mosaic tiles pictures, gorgeous chandeliers.... Don't miss it!;5;July 17, 2015
moscow metro;incredible....every body should visit this metro and watch this art museum...it is old building made for hiding from atomic war and transformation...you really appreciate russian architecture for metro and wall art for example paintings and staues and stairs...;4;July 17, 2015
a real underground museum;the metro stations of the central line are huge underground halls , each decorated in a different style, all are related to Russina history and nationalism. One is decorated with mosaics, the other with vitrage arts, etc. and th ebig wall mosaic of MYR at comsomolshaya station, the largest undergraound station in the world.;5;July 16, 2015
Famous metro station;The Moscow metro stations are famous and rightly so. They have some very fancy decoration. The trains come every 90s so they only stop for a short time at each station. Be prepared to get on and get off quickly. I had to hold the door open a few times to make sure our whole group gets on. We had a guide so I don't remember which station we visited. There are cool chanderliers, nice murals, stained glass windows and sculptures at different stations. One very interesting one was at the statue station where they had bronze sculptures with a dog and a man. It is lucky to rub the dog's nose so all the dogs has very shiny nose compared to all the other sculptures.;4;July 16, 2015
Amazing place;This place is to a metro station like a bottle of fine wine is to a coke,,, Place is juts beautiful and details are amazing. There are classical constructions mixed with statues from soviet period (very interesting) and I believe when going to Moscow it is one of the most iconic places (of the many many places to visit).;5;July 16, 2015
Now this is travel;The Moscow metro is fantastic, let's face it! A train virtually every 90 seconds is insane!!! Compared to Australia where you could be waiting for 40 mins if you missed the last one! Something special is the architecture at the stations something that is just beautiful. I love traveling on the Metro;5;July 16, 2015
Great value to visit;Through Moscow metro visit you can see USSR & Russia country history & development. I see great value to visit old Moscow metro stations build 1930-40th particularly: Ploschad revoluzii, Kievskaja, Majakovskaja, Belorussikaja, Novoslobodskja, Komsomolskaja, this stations decorated more like palaces rather metro stations (please take your camera to momorize the views). If you have time please also visit station Vorob'evy gory located in the bridge over Moscow river. I advice off this station and walk to Vorob'evy gory city view point - the best one in Moscow (about 30 mins working distance from the station) with motobikes meeting point, spectacular view to Moscow University, city ski jump range & Trinity Churche. Please mind the weather conditions, especially rain or snow.;4;July 16, 2015
Spotlessly Clean;this has to be the cleanest and most beautiful metro system in the world. The architecture and works of art at the stations are amazing. Absolutely sensational;5;July 13, 2015
Absolutely fantastic trip - "Don't miss the best of Moscow";Moscow is a hub of avant-garde art and architecture, photography and cinema that attract millions of art lovers from all over the world. Moscow boasts of some great hotels. This was a tour that was made so enjoyable by the guide. He was very knowledgeable and passionate about his history. We have seen most of the historical places in Moscow. We would like to share some of the names with you - St. Basil's Cathedral, Moscow Kremlin and Bolshoi Theatre etc. Would love to go back whenever I am in that region again.;5;July 13, 2015
Not just public transport;Wow, wow, wow!!!Stunningly beautiful as well as operating a fantastic and very cheap service.Sure, use it to get around.  But a lot of the metro stations are worth visiting as an attraction in their own right.Puts London to shame!;5;July 12, 2015
Art for the people;Never thought to find that there was this kind of art in an underground railway station - not just in one but in all. All the stations had a particular theme. No graffiti art like other cities that we had visited. Even the descent into the stations was artistic. Wonderful to the eye altough the speed of the trainsarrivals and departures left one gasping! Managed to navigate our trip to our hotel on our own without incident without our guide!;4;July 12, 2015
Also managed by myself;Managed to navigate from rishkaya station near holiday inn suschevsky to red square.  Was also nervous but bought an 11 sector pass ticket. Carrying a copy of the metro map is useful if you do not have an app and planning where you need to transfer.  When trying to work out which platform direction is required look at the map to see the final destination. I found in most cases I could recognise the first letter of the final destination On the line so I could choose the right platform. From there counted the stops.  Most challenging is transferring between lines but have a go and found it just took a little mo walking and I found the right place. A great experience.  With red square there are many exits but at least at that station there are maps with with English and English translations on street signs when you get out.;5;July 11, 2015
Underground city;It is a wonderful experience to ride the Moscow Metro. Each station is unique piece of art, clean and spacious. The only drawback is that it is very easy to get lost in stations' intersections.;4;July 11, 2015
An Unique Experince;Had an occasion to travel by famous Moscow Metro. An unforgettable experience. It is important that you know Russian Language or have someone  with you who  knows the same, otherwise it is difficult to navigate. Trains are clean though old. Do give it a try.;4;July 11, 2015
Fast, cheap and beautiful;Like most of the other reviewer state: Just take the metro when in Moscow. Get a map or download an app to understand/recognize the Cyrillic name. Once in a while just get off a metro and enjoy the beautiful stations...;5;July 11, 2015
Amazing stations;The metro is very clean which is a definite difference from U.S. subways, but the most notable thing is of course the beauty of many of the stations. Even the simpler metro stations are made of good materials and a joy to walk through while the more impressive stations are architectural marvels.;5;July 10, 2015
MORE THEN A METRO;Its diffşcult to say its a Metro. Very old and the most beautiful underground stations I have ever seen in the countries I have been. I would say it was like an art gallery. I highway recommend you to visit and see the metro if you are in Moscow.;5;July 10, 2015
Wonderous;The stations are incredible, first and foremost they are so clean.  The statues art and Chandeliers have to be seen to be believed;5;July 9, 2015
Can't read Russian but it was NO problem taking the Metro!;We can't read any Russian at all so we were a bit nervous at first to take the Metro.  No worries at all!  We simply counted the number of stops we needed until we got off.  We even made our own word out of the actual Russian word so we could recognize it when we pulled into the stops.Super clean, super cheap, super safe and EVERYONE takes the Metro!  We got off some of the stops just because they were so beautiful inside.  We looked around and hopped back on to where we wanted to go.;5;July 9, 2015
Riding the Moscow Metro;Absolutely wonderful. The art and architecture of the metro is unusual; Moscow known for how clean the metro is! Trains also exceptionally clean, and run on time. Escalators at a very, very steep angle since the metro is deep underground. Fun to see and interesting to experience.;5;July 9, 2015
Amazing experience!;For three days. We stayed in Moscow and made full use of the metro. The amazing aspect of the metro is that it connects almost every place of moscow as near as possible. You don't have to look for another means of transport when u get out of the station. The metro stations are beautifully decorated with sculptures, statues, and well-lit designer chandeliers. The escalators are perhaps the longest in the world which clearly shows the depth of these metro stations. The train service is frequent and the speed is amazing. Rather than burying tickets every time, we purchased passes. 11 passes cost 360 roubles. It's a wonderful experience to be in the moscow metro.;5;July 8, 2015
Artwork down under;Even after watching photos of the Russian Metro stations, you still get amazed of the artwork below the pulsating capitol, the heart of Moscows transport system. A great variety in new and old architecture, unique each of them, exciting and fascinating, suddenly understanding the greatness of the metro system, transport for the people in the finest way you can imagine. Where Sovjet building style could be grey and without expression, the metro stations from old times and even the modern ones illustrate a fantastic nation with the spirit of communism built in, luxury for all people.Try it, you will not regret!;5;July 8, 2015
Soviet palaces;It was Stalin's ambitious idea to construct palaces for soviet people where everyone can feel himself as a king in a palace with specially arranged space, color, light!;5;July 8, 2015
Cheap and memorable;You can spend the whole day there, going from one station to another. An absolute must in Moscow. Take a good camera, and comfy shoes and be mesmorised by the  grandeur  of the place: );5;July 8, 2015
Its a very crowded..must see!;Amazing, this is something you have to experience. If you're really hard core, go and take the ring line during peak hours - packed with folks, smell of vodka and ..., but at the same time you're surrounded by ladies looking like models. It's a real trip. The architecture - go late at night, when the stations are empty, it's worth it. You buy a ticket for a joke of a price, which lets you ride for however long you want, it only becomes invalid when you leave a station out onto the street. Take food & drinks with you, and just travel all the stations you want to see - especially the ones downtown, the old ones. If you plan well, you can have a full day of station-hopping with great experiences! And don't hide that you're a foreigner - people love to practice their language skills with you, a great opportunity to get to know locals and their stories. However, hide your wallet (keep it in the from pockets of your jeans). There are still pickpockets out there, mainly from the former soviet republics....;5;July 8, 2015
Underground Palace...;A couple of deep stairs after, you arrive into a grid of unique metro stations that you would only see in Russia. The Moscow metro system its so unique that every station its a masterpiece with all sort of statues, frescos and sculptures. The biggest metro system outside Asia with almost 200 stations, the Moscow Metro, was design in part, to operate as a bomb shelter during the Cold War with some of the deepest stations in the World. Lots of stations are worth a look and booking one of the famous metro tours its a must if you are either an art lover or a cold war fanatic. PS: Taking pictures sometimes its challenging since its not entirely allow and the police might say something but most of the times you will be able to take some in the most popular stations.;5;July 8, 2015
They are an attraction;Inside the metro stations are works of art! They are beautifully decorated with marble, stain glass and statues. They are the most impressive stations I gave been to. It is better to buy a card fir 11 journeys to prevent from queuing each time;4;July 8, 2015
Must experience;Good experience. Nicely maintained. Height of escalators are really good, one should take this at least to have the experience.;5;July 8, 2015
Spotless and Heroic Opulence for the average Joe in the Street;Spotless, extraordinary, amazing and today taken for granted by busy Muscovites going about their daily lives, earning a crust and trying to make ends meet.  I found some of the "heroic" statuary almost heart breaking - and was utterly in awe of the incredible deep escalators. Don't miss it :);5;July 8, 2015
Old but Beautiful;They said it was the most beautiful subway in the world and it was neat.  It went VERY deep into the ground and had alot of murals and ornate columns that made it nice.  The trains were somewhat crowded but that's what subways are for.;4;July 7, 2015
One of the most lovely metro networks in the world;Beautiful! It's one of these things you just have to experience. You don't visit just one metro station to see what it's all about: you take the metro everywhere you go in Metro and after a week you will have seen some really gorgeous stations. It takes you by surprise every time you get out of a metro-vehicle: suddenly and unexpected something that looks more like a ballroom then a station many meters under de ground.;5;July 7, 2015
Must see;The Moscow metro is a must visit for any visitor to Moscow. A 50 ruble ticket can take you from any station on any of the numerous lines (think there are about 12 odd lines) to any other station. It is believed that most places is within a walk-able distance of about 10 to 15 mins from a metro station. Our closest metro was Prospekt Mira, and we used it very often. The escalators going underground are really steep, reckon at about 60 degrees or so. Some metro stations are wonderfully decorated with chandeliers, some others with statues. The trains too are run efficiently and are spaced out only a few minutes apart. A wonderful experience.;5;July 6, 2015
Spectacular;Forget the train, they are old outdated. Concentrate on the station. Just take the metro train and stop at every station. Each station has a different design: bronze statues, mosaic tiles walls and ceiling, stain glass, crystal chandelier, and many more. It's like museum. It is really amazing.;5;July 4, 2015
Don't Miss This;Difficult to review the whole metro - it all depends which stations & lines you visit. But it's deep (the system stations were meant to double as bomb shelters), fast & efficient. SOME of the stations are full of the most amazing art work (use a guide book), but others are very simple & functional. It's also very clean. Puts New York & London systems to shame. Worth spending time riding around, getting on & off and having a look around. As always in crowded places - watch out for pickpockets.;4;July 3, 2015
Works of Art;Not only is the Metro super efficient and on time, but all of the original stations are different in artistic design.  It is worth it to spend 3 or 4 hours travelling to the stations considered to be the most beautiful.  You can find the stations listed in most guide books.  It is like visiting art and history museums at the same time.  The stations were built during the soviet era, so many of the themes are soviet worker themes.  But don't let the "soviet" tag discourage you from visiting the stations.  They are truly beautiful!  Some have huge works of stained glass; others are fine and extensive mosaics; and others are important for their statuary.  A must see!!;5;July 2, 2015
Amazing and beautiful, cannot be missed!;A tribute to the designers, and workers who created this unbelievable Metro System. What an amazing and surprising subway system, easy, fast and very convenient transportation yes, but a massive work of art and cultural museum -- that's amazing. I was prepared to be impressed, but actually seeing the Metro was one of the highlights of our visit to Moscow. Absolutely amazing! Clean, safe and beautiful, we were Impressed.;5;July 2, 2015
Underground Palace;Moscow's Metro rail is their underground train station complete with grand chandeliers, mosaic paintings, bronze statues and an all marbled fooring and walls. What a grand place for a train station!;5;July 2, 2015
Stop and look;If I had a week in Moscow, I would take the subway all over the city to see all of the metro stations. Unlike a lot of cities in US, Moscow actually spends a ton on $ making these stations beautiful. Usually it is to commemorate a specific history point, but sometimes it is just pure beauty.;5;July 1, 2015
A beautiful underground art gallery as well as a major transport link;Moscow metro is an in your face statement of Soviet perceived power - the are really the soviet" cathedrals to their ideology. They are  beautiful, sometimes over powering with such craftsmanship and riot of marbles. Each major one is so different from the rest; they are like some form of art gallery. For columns and arches Kievskaya, Sokoi and Khamovnicheskiy. For oustanding panels in ceilings or walls - Novokuuzvetskaya, majakovskaya, komsomolskaya and Byelorusskaya. For superb figure statues Baumavskaya and the famous Revolution Square station where like many locals you must stroke the nose of the German Shepherd with the Border Patrol figure. Wall relief figures at Electrozavakskaya. You easily could spend all day just doing the metro stations. all is clean and trains are quick and often. Buy a card for 5 journeys. You must get a map; inside the carrige the line map is only on one side of the compartment. The loudspeaker asks travellers to give seats to the old and we found travellers were all really well manered and gave up seats to AOPs and older women without asking. On the other hand staff are certainly curt and most unhelpful. Forget taxis this is the convenient and fastest way to to travel around Moscow.;5;July 1, 2015
Like a museum;Cyrill alphabet is a must before entering the metro. However, all Russians are very helpful when you ask, even if they don't speak English they try to help. Most of the stations are magnificient. Especially the red and the brown lines must be seen. Do not hesitate to jump off the train to take pictures of the stations since every 2 minutes another train arrives at the station.;5;July 1, 2015
Amazing transportation - and history with art.;Do what all the guidebooks suggest and take the metro tour!  Sunday morning is best.  Start on a Brown line station (the ring) and get a good online review to help judge which stops to make and which lines to explore.  One cheap price - and each stop can be as long as you like or as short as 2-3 minutes till the next train.;5;July 1, 2015
Nice, simple, clean;Every stations in Moscow's metro is beautiful, different and on almost every station you could think that you are on the old opera house. They are extremely clean, pretty simple for managing - just follow the color of your line and you will success.;5;July 1, 2015
amazing architectures;I am so amazed with all the architectures in each and every metro station in Moscow. they are all different. if you have time in Moscow, you should spend at least 2 days to stop in each and every station. trust me, its worth it especially if you love old style architectures.;4;July 1, 2015
Check it out;The Metro is so clean and pristine. I never thought I'd suggest people visit a metro - but here it's a good one to check out.;5;June 30, 2015
Very convenient;We used the metro both as a means of transport and as an attraction.  For transport, we found it easy to buy tickets - usually we got about four tickets each on the one pass.  To view the stations, you can use the one ticket as you don't exit any station.  Very interesting sculptures, mosaics and painting in the stations.In terms of transport, it is very easy, especially if you learn Cyrillic alphabet before you go.  It is very fast and functional and young men stand up for old ladies like me!  Thank you guys!;5;June 30, 2015
Beautiful metro stations;The metro stations are beautiful and so clean. We were fortunate to be traveling with a native speaker. I must say I don't think we would be able to manage it on our own since there are no signs in English whatsoever. Unfortunately I found out too late that there is a metro station tour available. On our next visit to Moscow, we will have to take the tour.;4;June 30, 2015
You Must at Least Ride a Few Stops;It was so interesting to see the various stations in Moscow to discover how different the metro system is there compared to the ones I have traveled in the US.  Each station is uniquely decorated and ornate, all dedicated to some aspect of Russian life and history.  The trains and stations were immaculate and easy to navigate.  Don't leave Russia without riding the metro!;4;June 30, 2015
Probably best in the world.;Clean nice and luxurious.  Palaces underground. Absolutely magnificent. Proud of Moscow. It did served the nation as a shelter during the WW2. Joseph Stalin delivered his first public speech from the underground in September 1941. Want you be in the underground and a luscious palace at once? Go there. Enjoy!;5;June 30, 2015
A metro - really?;I was lucky enough to be able to visit Moscow and used the Metro system on a daily basis - one day I spent several hours simply going from one station to the next as they are incredible - you really need to see some of these amazing spaces if you're ever in Moscow;5;June 30, 2015
Under ground museum;WOW! you feel like you are in a museum! very high roofs, beautiful statues and very fast trains! take picture of stations you start your travel or want to visit in future because you hardly can find anything in English and you might mix up reading the Russian alphabet...;5;June 30, 2015
Great!;We spent a couple of hours just getting off at different metro stations and having a look around! Each one is unique and has its own story.;5;June 30, 2015
Some really beautifull stations, worth seeing;The Moscow underground is definitely worth seeing. Especially the older ones, e.g. on the Koltsevaya line. Some of the stations are really luxurious, with big glass chandeliers and all walls and floor in marble. Each one of them is an original. My favourite stations were Mayakovskaya, Prospekt Mira and Novoslobodskaya. You can buy single tickets or a ticket for whole day.;5;June 30, 2015
absolute necessity for moscow;millions use the moscow subway and without that subway traffic would be "impossible" in moscow. some subway stations are really beautiful (but old). moscow subway is deep underground, so very long electric staircases available;4;June 30, 2015
More than lived up to expectations;I took a long awaited trip on the Moscow Metro in order to get to a business meeting on the opposite side of the City. I had seen the pictures and had read the reviews - but the overall experience more than exceeded expectation. The stations were fantastic and the trains were great. I was appreciative of my colleague's presence as - given that I'm not an expert in the cyrillic alphabet - I would have got lost.... Taking just a simple trip is a 'must-do' for any visitor to Moscow.;5;June 30, 2015
english please. they got free wifi!!;i love how super often the metro come. i didnt take a tour or plan to see any specific station. but the recommended ones are always on the popular route. it was impressive but just walking past during the journey is okay for me.no english at all , so please prepare your document in russian also. but russian are super nice. we keep asking all the time :Dthey provide free wifi in the metro. but you need local number for free registration.;3;June 30, 2015
Beautiful russian made metro before world war 2.;Simply awesome ..beautiful as russia built it in 1935. Can you believe it? Really wonderful design of lane and metro system in that time...and all the metro station has its own structure and interior. Only problem i found is ther is no english sign board on metro.;5;June 30, 2015
Pretty nice!;I saw the Moscow metro after St Petersburg so I dind't find it so inetersting! Still, there are some stations that  worth some pictures;3;June 30, 2015
Beautiful decorated stations but not so easy to navigate to the right train;The best thing about Moscow metro is that each station is different and well decorated wiht paintings, posters, chandeliers, tiles... And it is clean.The downside of the metro is that you cannot buy a metro ticket paying with credit card (at least on the stations I visited) and there are no clear maps and guideniles regarding trains you are suppose to take to reach desired designation. During rush hours it can be quite crouded, probably as everywhere. It is however chaper and quicker to use metro than taxis in Moscow.;3;June 30, 2015
Amazing !!!;Very fast subway. Every 2 minutes a train coming. The signs are very comfortable even those who do not read Russian. Surprisingly spotless one, and no graffiti.;5;June 29, 2015
Amazing Metro;We visited the Metro since we had been told how amazing it was. Sure enough, the stations were highly decorated, but more importantly were spotless, without paper litter or graffiti. It was quite staggering seeing trains arriving every 30 seconds, with hundreds of passengers arriving and departing. The trains are also very clean, which is not the case in Australia. Visiting the stations also permitted us to see how the average person was dressed. We were impressed by the fashion of the women, although the men were far more conservatively dressed in casual clothes. Definitely include a visit to the Metro in your itinerary.;4;June 29, 2015
Amazing;This is a beautiful thing to see.  While the trains themselves are nothing great, the construction and decoration of the structure is really beautiful.  Hard to believe something so nice was built underground!;5;June 29, 2015
A ride on the metro;I was totally impressed with the Moscow metro.  The stations are really beautiful - not at all like other subways I have visited.  And I never waited for 2 minutes when waiting for a metro - no matter the time of day or night.;5;June 27, 2015
What an incredible public transport system;The Moscow Metro is sensational.  It is a comprehensive, well used and effective means of transport - but who cares!  It is a network of art and beauty stretching in all directions across the city.  There is so much to see and marvel at.  The symbolism is of largely a past time in history and that itself adds to the spectacle.  If you are using the Metro a lot in your trip then you will see much of it.  Take your time when traveling through it, step in to a quiet corner, marvel and then move on to your next destination.  And go out your way to see the main attraction/stations.  I do not think you will experience another Metro like it in the world.One thing to do before you come.  Learn a few Cyrillic letters - it will help you navigate the city so much easier.;5;June 27, 2015
Brave it, you'll be glad;Impossible to review as a landmark as its vast and you'd need to visit a great many stations to appreciate them all.  As a transport facility its fantastic and you'd be well advised to establish the best ticket to suit your needs and get down there using it - there will be one to cover the length of your stay which you can also use on trams and buses.My only advice is probably spend a bit of time there, the temptation is to rush with all the commuters and while you won't be popular for holding anyone up (don't forget to keep to the side on escalators!), you should definitely take some time to appreciate the architecture and design around you.;5;June 26, 2015
Easy to Use, but Worth a Look for the Art;The Moscow Metro is pretty easy to use even if you don't understand Russian. The lines are all color coded and you can easily find your starting point - just memorize or write down the Cyrillic characters and you can come back to your start. Look for a big M marking an entrance to the Metro. Buy your ticket at the office nearby marked Kacca. Ticket prices are very reasonable. Remember to buy two tickets if you intend to exit the Metro - one going, the other returning. The stations in the Metro house beautiful architectural art in marble, metal, crystal and other media. The stations and trains are VERY clean. Be prepared to get on and off quickly - remember, people are trying to get to work or home.;5;June 26, 2015
Take a Guided Tour of the Subway System;Art in metro stations?  Yes, in Moscow.  I actually took a tour by train and stopped at each of the stations to view old master art.;5;June 26, 2015
The most beautiful metro in the world;Moscow Metro is one hundred percent the most beautiful metro in the world. The oldest stations are works of arts with their painting, mosaics and semi-precious stones used for siding columns and sometimes walls. Visiting metro is just a must for those who's come to see Moscow. But you should remember that it might be very hot and stuffy there at summer time. The stations are  very crowded, so you have to keep away from the "crossroads". I would also recommend to have a metro plan and learn by heart the name of the station where you went in as well as the colour of the line in case you get lost in the crowd.;3;June 26, 2015
Historical Metro;You dont need a car in Moscow if you have metro ticket. İt is fast, safety, historical travel way in Moscow. Also you can see many different people culture. Try it !;5;June 26, 2015
Most beautiful metro I have seen so far;This is definitely the most beautiful metro I have seen so far. Especially the stations located on the garden ring. The best time to visit them is Sunday morning when it is not crowded (as people do not go to work), during the weekend it is not such a nice experience,..;5;June 25, 2015
Dream come true;I've always received that .ppt presentations with pictures from Moscow metro and I thought "One day I'll see it with my own eyes"! I have this soft-spot in my heart for vintage... and I was stunned! Some of the metro stations aren't that well kept, I have to confess, but you can still find it's beauty! It forbidden to go to Moscow without stopping in the central metro stops. You will love it! :);5;June 25, 2015
Moscow Metro;Moscow Metro is something you can not miss to visit. It has at least a dozen stations all furnished like you were in a very good museum. Full of paints, beautiful lamps,special floors, it really looks like a very nice museum....do not miss it...!!;5;June 24, 2015
Palacial Metro Stations;Went on a Metro tour - fantastic. Stations were like palaces.  If you're not confident about using the metro in Moscow then I would highly recommend Happy Moscow Tours.;5;June 24, 2015
A must do!;Stick with the original stations on the original line built in 1935.  Wonderful interiors that need time to explore.  Unlike some comments here, we found the system easy to navigate using the color coding system.;5;June 24, 2015
Awesome... super awesome!;Such a joyful ride in Moscow! At every stop, the place gave me a stunning view of the railway station. Each station is totally different. All stations are amazing with marvelous wall painting and decoration that reflect outstanding art skills and time-consuming process. Apart from the chance to admire astonishing works of art, I've had an opportunity to observe the local people from all walks of life which made me feel super-awesome! I love riding the Moscow Metro!;5;June 24, 2015
Somewhat confusing for foreigners.;Great to see but somewhat confusing, even for a well seasoned traveller. It's not strictly intuitive. Trains are old and definitely not built for a smooth ride so if you can't get a seat make sure you hold on! They stop and start abruptly. If in any doubt just hold out your metro map and someone will help you within a few minutes, we had several people assist and they were very nice. Very cheap, R50 for any single journey. Excellent value and probably the most convenient way to get around Moscow.;3;June 23, 2015
Modern Wonder of the World.;For 50 Roubles ($1), you can spend a day in the Art Museums found in Mayakovskaya, KIevskaya, Komsomolskaya, Revolution and Park Pobedi metro stations !! I keep wondering how they managed the steep escalators before WWII !! Would have been proud to be a Russian.;5;June 23, 2015
Incredible architecture and decorations in the stations;Aside from being an easy and inexpensive way to get around the city, the Moscow Metro is a worthwhile attraction in itself. We spent a few hours touring the stations and really enjoyed it. A friend had recommended her favorite stations and you can easily find information in guide books or online to create a self-guided tour. Many of the most spectacular and ornate stations are on the circle line. Each station has a different theme and a different style. The mosaics, marble columns, sculptures, carvings, and even stained glass windows (at the Novoslobodskaya station) were really impressive. As others have mentioned, it's helpful to learn the Cyrillic alphabet to help navigate, or be sure to have a map that shows station names in both the Cyrillic and Latin alphabets.;5;June 22, 2015
most beautiful metro in the world;the fastest way to go around in moscow to escape the traffic, the cost of it is RUB 50 rubbles per trip. to change the line you will have to walk a bit.its the most beautiful in the world, each station looks like a museum, you will feel changing museum at each station.;5;June 22, 2015
Stunning metro;This is by far one of the best looking metros I have seen. Stunning architecture and music playing and the metros even has free Wifi. Easy to use and if you have the metro app even better;4;June 22, 2015
Some Stations are very nice but so crowded;Moscow Metro is famous for its beautiful stations and the attractive decorations, statues, lights etc.Some stations are real masterpieces while some others are very ordinary.A tourist guide states the stations which are exceptionally nice and suggests visiting those. Indeed somne stations are like museum halls. Great bronze statues and imressive lighting decorate the galleries underground and make you feel special.What it striked me mostly is:How busy the Metro is !!  I have never seen so many people using public transport.Some stations which serve more than 1 line, have different names for each line.You may have to walk really long to change trains.It is relatively easy to use.  (once you can read Russian)It is cheap & clean but not so friendly for handicapped people.Moscow metro is so important because the City is clogged by traffic most times.;4;June 22, 2015
Magnificent Metro;We toured the Moscow Metro with Moscow Free Tours and found this to be an outstanding tour. The magnificent architecture combined with the theme of each of the metro stations we visited was just mind blowing. The metro itself is outstanding in its keeping to time and the consistency of trains coming and going. I think it's better than London's....and London's is excellent! This tour is a must for the sheer beauty, opulence and dedication to the people of Moscow.;5;June 21, 2015
marvelous itself;all the stations are very attractive and very crowded, clean at the top, each has some meaning on its place. almost all the stations are huge enough, at the same time it may include lots of people.;5;June 20, 2015
the most beautiful metro I've ever seen;Every station looks different, but all of them are beautiful. I spent half of the day on sightseeing the metro stations. It was totally worth it :) And very cheap in fact.;5;June 19, 2015
Just stunning!;There are metro tours that you can take which I'm sure are worthwhile and interesting cos there's quite a history with the different designs of the metros. But I read up on google, and went on my own to a number of metros and took pics! How exciting!  This is really worth spending time on!;5;June 18, 2015
amazingly beautiful;amazing and interesting and you should visit.   However be prepared as it is noisy and can be very busy.;4;June 18, 2015
Amazing mosaics and character;The metro stations are superb and another example of the richness of Russian history. You can either go on a tour or alone however although I had prebooked a tour with Free Tours nobody turned up or if they did not where I was! Thankfully I had learned Russian at evening class and so was able to decipher the stations and work out which way I was going.My guide book listed the top 10 stations but a couple were disappointing. I did 3 on the green line then moved onto the brown circle line. It is mainly the area in between the 2 platforms so you dont need to go up all the escalators and can easily get from 1 station to another.Mayakovskaya had 24 mosaics in the ceiling and some were stunning. Novosloboskaya had stained glass. Kievskaya lots of paintings of Ukrainian culture. Komsomolskaya was good and had a Lenin bust and great chandeliers and arches. Novokuznetskaya more good mosaics. For 50 roubles you can see so much!;5;June 18, 2015
RUUUUcia;Beautiful.  An amazing place to go.  I loved Russia, most of it. Would love to go again.  It is a long trip though.  We adopted our son from there and he has no interest to go back.;4;June 18, 2015
A must for Moscow visitors;I am lucky, living in Moscow for a longer period of time and can use the Metro every day if I want to. I am impressed of the decorations all around. A lot of work and a lot to keep it as it should be, nice and clean. Train every 2-3 minute so need of a car is not there...take a visit to the Metro and have a look for yourself;5;June 18, 2015
I love Moscow metro!!!;Like a historical and tourist place Moscow metro is Marvelous!!! If you are tourist you must to see the best metro stations like Plochad Revolyucii, Kievskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Mayakovskaya, Komsomolskaya. And also is very comfortable and fast.;5;June 18, 2015
Metro is a worthwhile visit;The Metro stations on the circle line are really worth visiting. You only need to buy a single ticket and can get off at each station to view the art work. Each station has a different theme;5;June 17, 2015
impressive service;Once you figure your way around, the metro is efficient and convenient.  It's amazing how frequently the trains come and how fast they travel.  Plus, many of the stations are just beautiful!!;4;June 17, 2015
Transportation with artistic environment;It is a not to miss sight in Moskow. The stations are a beautiful art show (at least one part of them :)) and it is also the most cheapest and fastest way to get around. Don't miss the bronze statues in the Ploshchad Revolyutsii station of the blue line. It is said that touching them brings luck. So why not try it out? ;);5;June 17, 2015
Unusual for just transport;Moscow Metro has once been a very pathetic place, but I personally don't like the older stations with marble and Soviet symbols. What I really enjoy is the new style of stations like Maryana Roshcha. It's still beautiful and unusual, but it's also modern and more positive.;4;June 17, 2015
Beautiful stations;The Moscow Metro stations are luxurious! The trouble for me was the language because I could never remember the station names. The lines cross the city.;4;June 16, 2015
This is the most beautiful subway in the world!;This is the most beautiful metro in the world, but need restoration. All the old subway station made in communist times and spared no expense. Some subway stations are lined with semiprecious stones! But it is visible that the restoration is not done for a long time. Necessary to do exactly the restoration, but not the usual repair, because it's not just transport, but also architectural masterpieces.;4;June 16, 2015
If you Moscow, you have to walk around there;When you read Moscow Metro you think only transportation but it is not. you walk under the ground to see all the store you would like to see. Everything down there, you can buy food, toys, clothes and all your gift for you friend and family. It is unique area and only you can see it in Moscow not anywhere else.;5;June 15, 2015
Grand commuting;We just had time to do a metro trip on the blue line starting with Ploshchad with it's sculptures depicting Soviet life. Be sure to pat the guard's dog. Everybody does. Got off at Arbatskaya with its braided moulding and arched ceiling. Only a minute or so between trains so it's easy to hop- on/ hop-off to view the stations. Kievsnkaya with its elegant white marble and frescoe panels. Last stop was the newer Park Pobedy with enamelled panels showing the 1812 and 1945 victories. A short look at some of the famous Moscow metro stations. Worth a look if you have time.;4;June 14, 2015
Worth visiting;Even if you don't think you will need to use the Metro, the stations are well worth visiting themselves. Some of them really are amazing. If you don't speak Russian get a map that includes the station names in Russian and English or get an app for your smartphone. We don't speak a word of Russian but got around almost as easily as we would on the London Underground.;5;June 12, 2015
Moscow Metro is a Marvel;We had a guided tour & would have been totally lost if not for the delightful Olga.  The stations are absolute marvels - beyond our expectation - totally worth spending as much time as you can getting to as many as you can.  We only saw English at one station which was the Theatre Station - so if you plan to do it on your own ensure you have a good grasp of the station names as it is not for the faint hearted - you could end up anywhere!;5;June 12, 2015
Fun;We visited several stations which were very interesting. We were with a guide who explained what we were looking at and she knew which ones to go to. It did get a bit tiring as we had had a very busy day;5;June 11, 2015
Superb metro... in some places!;It's probably the most beautiful metro on earth... but it's still a metro!! Some stations are amazing, others are funny (one has communist era fresques!) and many more are just as dirty and crowded as anywhere else!;4;June 11, 2015
efficient and quick;very clean, fast, really running smooth and frequently, but there is something really importatn - YOU HAVE TO BE ABLE SPEAK (or at least read) RUSSIAN!!! Because there are no english names of the stations and no english signs describing routings, so take care!Stations are beautifull, most of them are like a living  russian/soviet history, especially on the circle "koltsoy" line;4;June 11, 2015
wonderful;it is like a museum .each station look perfect. one token you can travel all over the moscow.. just love it but no english written ..;5;June 10, 2015
As good as people say.;I'd heard and read a lot about the splendors of the Moscow Metro, so it was great to finally experience it first hand. The stations were clean, the trains fast and efficient.The art work was both stunning and interesting classic art work and more modernistic. Another good thing was the stations weren't ruined, all covered in graffitti and tagging. Thumbs up to Muscovites for keeping it that way. The price was also good, we paid 400 roubles (€6.50) for a 3 day pass.;5;June 10, 2015
Get around the city but don't get lost.;The architecture ,in some stations, is iconic . from the chandeliers to the statues, some stations are worth seeing. The metro helps in getting around the city. I would recommend that you buy a " Troyka" card (like oyster card in London) if you are staying for a while. Just take care that everything is in Russian language. so it would be better if you downloaded their application.;3;June 9, 2015
the most convenient transport in Moscow;Clean, fast, reliable - and even beautiful with free WiFi. This is the best transport in Moscow, especially when you take into account all the traffic jam. Make a stop at the most beautiful stations.;5;June 9, 2015
Beautif place;Piece of art. Must visit place to feel you are in a palace. Very clean and fast. It serves large area and easy to use. Highly recommended;5;June 9, 2015
Clean, Fast, Beautiful;The best underground that i sow in my life.First, the place is very secureThere are a lot of police and other security officers everywhere.Second , the place is clean.Third there is a free wifi in all metro.Fourh - some station,such as Mayakovskaya a very beatiful and have a historical weight.Fifth - There are a lot of fast lines - you can get all around Moscow without any problem.;5;June 9, 2015
Just Superv;Metro tour of Moscow is a must tour.One can do it of own with little home work and at cost of just 50 roubles .You can cover all in one ticket as you pay again in case u have come out of stn.Time is no limit for ticket.Stations are unique and different from others in beauty.You feel like u are in palaces.Just great;5;June 8, 2015
An example for Metros everywhere;It takes a while to get it figured out, but the Moscow Metro is an example of efficiency and style. Clean and elegant, each station is different. Navigating around Moscow is easy if you get the names figured out - my only problem being that it is not very English tourist-friendly. I use a brilliant (and free) app called "Metro" that has downloadable maps of every metro, and simple navigation  instructions that make it easy to plan journeys. The other big "plus" of the Moscow Metro is the very reasonable price.;5;June 6, 2015
Travel in style;Don't miss the Moscow Metro! It is possible to navigate it by yourself as a tourist once you have the basics, but be aware that the signs are in Cyrillic so you need to be able to at least read and pronounce the Cyrillic alphabet. The stations to visit are too numerous to mention but guidebooks will recommend the highlights.;5;June 5, 2015
You should stop for a while and look around;Every station is exceptional and really beautiful! It is better to be there late in the evening when there are not so many people.;5;June 5, 2015
Fascinationg "Undergroud Palaces";The architectural style and design is as good if not better than a lot of palaces. If not for the number of people on the underground you would not believe you were only in metro stations. The lighting, the art work would not be amiss in a museum;5;June 4, 2015
Hustle and bustle;It must be very tiring for the people living in Moscow to use the metro everyday because it is over-crowded, and you should be very careful not to confuse which line you are taking. At some stations the gap between the train and the platform is very wide, and the escalators are quite fast, once you step on a stair you should be careful not to fall, sometimes the distance you go down or up with the escalators is incredibly long. All of the stations we saw were different from each other and they were all very pretty. It is like there is another world under the city and I think Russia deserves big congratulations for maintaining such a system.;4;June 4, 2015
Unmissable, but bring a Russian-speaking guide;If ever you are in Moscow, a ride on the Metro is a must-do.  However without a Russian-speaker or at least someone who can parse out the Cyrillic script, there's a real danger of getting lost.  As you are enjoying the palace-like stations, please remember the system was dug by GULAG prisoners in the 1930s!;3;June 4, 2015
No better way to move through moscow;Moscow Metro is a experience in itself, the amazing long and deep stairs bring you to this beautifull stations.The metro itself is so efficient, and fast never wait more then one minute. And the system of colors makes it easy to navigate through this hudge city.;4;June 4, 2015
Best metro in the world;I live in Moscow, so I visit the metro almost every day. :-) I traveled a lot and seen underground in many countries. Moscow metro is very beautiful, comfortable, clean and safe to visit. How to go to metro? Very simple. Need to buy a single or multi-journey ticket. One-time costs around 1$, reusable-approximately 0.6$. On this ticket You can ride the subway all day until you exit it. There are other fares on the subway. They can be viewed here. http://mosmetro.ru/payment/tariff/. The scheme of the Moscow metro is also very simple. There is a circular line and 11 radial lines. http://mosmetro.ru/flash/scheme11.html. The transitions from line to line free.The inscriptions on the subway in Russian. But the diagrams in the train and at stations has inscriptions in English. In the new subway cars have an electronic scoreboard, which also have station names in English.Where to go in the subway and what to look for? The most beautiful metro station in Moscow is a station of the circle line station and the radial lines inside the ring. I think the most beautiful stations of the Moscow metro Komsomolskaja-koltsevaya, Arbatskaya-koltsevaya, Kievskaja-koltsevaya, Majakovskaya. This photo Komsomolskaya station ( not mine) http://www.espionstour.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/komsomolskaya-19-1920x1200.jpg. A good walk!;5;June 4, 2015
Amazing and different;Have used Metro in many countries but this one stands out for its stations. Almost each station has a different theme and décor. Its got bronze statues, chandlers, paintings, stained glass windows like cathedrals . The metro stations are absolutely neat and clean. very impressive.;5;June 4, 2015
Really Quite Something;It is an architectural work of art.  Period lighting, iron work, moulding... All so beautiful.  I wished I could be there ALONE to capture the beauty...  A MUST SEE in Moscow!!;4;June 4, 2015
Revolution Metro is the Best;Of all the metros this was the best, the massive revolution(bronze) like statues are solid and impressive. The other metros have a few paintings of Lenin, the revolution episodes, some marriages ,etc.;3;June 2, 2015
Amazing;Its hard to believe that you are in  Metro stations ,some of them are really stunning with stained glass windows ,murals,chandlers , beautiful tilling ;don't go at rush hour  ..;5;June 2, 2015
Metro in russia;Visited and used the Metro during our 7 day tour, easy to use 50r for a ticket, very long escalators down to the platforms but some of the platforms are amazing great hanging chandeliers, however be careful of pick pockets one of our group had his wallet stolen while getting onto the train.;5;June 2, 2015
Charming stations;Wonderful underground construction. Every stop is different and unique. Every station tells you a piece of history. I don't rank it as excellent because accessibility for handicapped people keeps being a pending subject in Moscow's Metro.;4;June 2, 2015
Cannot find nicer metro;Moscow metro is absolutely beautiful , some stations are amazing , very art deco style decor with some soviet touch . You realised that some people at that time made amazing job;5;June 2, 2015
Unique stations;The metro stations in Moscow are amazing. Some of them look more like a church than a metro stop.With the metro system in Moscow you buy one ticket for 50 Rubel and as long you don't leave a station you can take another metro and see other stops.A must have seen and very cheap as you just need one ticket.;5;June 1, 2015
Should be a museum;Unbelievably clean. Statues, murals, paintings adorn the walls and floor of the subway. It is hard to believe that it is used on a daily basis by so many and kept so neat and clean. Our subways pale in comparison.;5;May 31, 2015
Great Metro System;Fantastic metro system in Moscow for getting around city.Can be very confusing early on with language barrier if you don't speak Russian, so would recommend you research what stations you need to go from your area before hand.Services are very reliable and stations are  well maintained after a few days of using metro felt very safe doing so.;4;May 31, 2015
The peoples palaces.;Crazy but travelling on the Moscow Metro is a must!  Not just for getting from A to B but not to miss the outstanding beauty and detail in so many of the stations!! If you have time, get on and off at the stations on your route, you will not be disappointed!!Thousands of people use the Metro every day but you will find they are virtually spotless!!;4;May 31, 2015
Its like time travel!;You will find yourself getting excited by what the next station will look like while journeying between them on the Moscow Subway.  If I am not mistaken it has to be the cheapest subway system in the world with stations on every corner of Moscow Central & they are most definitely the grandest subway stations & something to be proud of.  As with the rest of central Moscow they are clean, rapid & pleasant (out of peak times).  There are shops selling food & drinks plus souvenirs at most stations.  The best of the bunch are Mayakovskaya  -  Zamoskvoretskaya LineKiyevskaya  -  Arbatsko-Pokrovskaya Line.  Dostoyevskaya  -  Lyublinsko-Dmitrovskaya Line. Ploschad Revolyutsii  -  Arbatsko-Pokrovskaya Line.If you want a guide Moscow 360 threw it in with the AK47 Tour & are excellent & informative.  They took us to a station that had the worlds 3rd longest elevator which is an experience in itself!;5;May 31, 2015
one of the most essential Moscow sights;You should obviously visit the most beautiful stations, they impress so much (Mayakovskaya, Komsomolskaya, Arbatskaya, Kievskaya, etc)! But don't visit it at rush-hours or you'll be not just impressed, the number of passengers will kill you! The best time to visit is the late hours - time before closing!;4;May 31, 2015
The most interesting attraction in Moscow;To my opinion this is by far the most interesting attraction in Moscow.  The system is amazing as the trains are extremely frequent (every 30 secs. - I measured ...!), the stations are unbelievably clean, including the rails themselves (in NYC, this area is the rats country...), and very safe.  But the main attraction is the design which is unbelievable - some stations look like palaces, other like museums, cathedrals, etc... One should understand the clever way that Stalin used these stations for propaganda purposes, and how they were de-Stalinized.  I recommend to join a tour in the Metro system, looking at the stations without understanding the real objective is not enough.;5;May 31, 2015
Amazing culture;You have to buy a ticket for 11 trips in Metro or bus, and  it is like 350 rublos so we did the Metro that goes all around the center of Moscu and stop at 5 stations  where one was better than the other.  So different some had frescos , other statues, but really is something never seen, so clean, and of course like other Metros, so don't take it in the rush hours is better mid day.  But this has become a must see in the tours of Moscow.  Unbelievable1;5;May 31, 2015
Makes the London Underground look a bit rubbish;The most beautiful stations that I have ever set eyes upon. The London Underground now looks shabby and grim in comparison.;4;May 28, 2015
Tourists;Russian capital Moscow is nice place we enjoyed aur Moscow trip very clean and good view we travel in 9 May it's a great day for as because victory of 2nd world war;5;May 28, 2015
Beautiful and very convenient;Make sure your hotel is near a metro station and the whole city opens up to you.  It is reasonably cheap and very fast.  Not to mention the beautiful metro stations you can visit.  You can really get just about anywhere in Moscow with the metro a little bit of walking.  And you can see some beautiful Soviet era decoration.;5;May 27, 2015
The Metro is like a museum;We toured the metro with a guide. The best parts were the ornate stations built under Stalin. One had bronze statues to men and women soldiers who saved Russia in WWII. it is cheap to ride and easy to get around.;4;May 27, 2015
Real adventure;Absolutely amazing .... A great experience But you really need to prepare your trip well in advance or be fluent in Russian nothing is written in another language, that's complicated. People are really helpful and willing to help direct you. It's clean and different from other countries ... The inside building are originals and at first look the trains looks old fashion but they are well maintained and you even got the wifi for free. Get the Moscow app on your smart phone it will make your life easy in there and the automatic machines speaks English avoid lining up at the cashiers;4;May 26, 2015
A must!;Riding the Metro is a highlight ! The beautiful mosaic murals, gold gilding, bronzed statues, ornate walls and ceilings, stained glass murals/windows, depictions of russian life past and present, enormous escalators (one escalator ride I had took 2.5mins) the grandness of the stations as well as the ride itself is to be experienced.  Definitely worth the ticket. You can ride the Metro for hours and hop on and off to view stations and it will only cost you the price of 1 ride (unless you go above ground and see a site). All rail enthusiasts and history /mural/statue buffs should go and check out some stations. You won't regret it.;5;May 26, 2015
Great  services;Moscow metro is well designed and has a historical attraction, the fare is moderate and what I like it most is, you can roam in the whole stations with only one ticket, I mean slot once for the whole hours you will wish to be. It's fast but a bit noisy and the language is in Russian only so you must listen attentively. The architectural is just fantastic, those who have not yet visit Moscow metro, please try one day to do that and you will never forget it. And your money will not be wasted.;5;May 26, 2015
Amazing;I have travelled most of the underground metro systems in the world, and the Moscow Metro is my favorite. Singapore is probably more high tech, but Moscow Metro is amazing in its design.  It has glorious chandeliers hanging from ceilings, and wonderful paintings and artistic wall designs.  Many stations have statues and other gems.  The trains themselves are clean and efficient.  The trains run very regularly and probably with better frequency than anywhere else in the world.  It is a great tourist site as well as a very practical way to get around Moscow.;5;May 25, 2015
moscow metro;i visited several of the Moscow stations with moscow greeter Alex.the stations are just awosome.They each are piece of art,just unimaginable.lots of different artwork theme,lovely lighting,lots of bronze statues.One can not belive that such a metro stations exsist without seeing it.IMO ITis a must see.The trains & stations are super clean & trains are very efficient.most surprising part of visit to the stations, is there are no trash bins on the stations & there is no trash or graffiti.just amazing.I have travelled a lot on Japan railsand the metro in Moscow is far superior than local Japan railway system.;5;May 25, 2015
Another must;This is a thing one needs to do when in Moscow.It is easy and very instructive, but it is better to do it with a guide to ensure you visit the right stations;5;May 24, 2015
Beautiful;Moscow is full of great sites, all easy to reach by one of the world's most efficient metro systems.metro  is a collection of spectacular architecture, murals, mosaics, statues,etc;5;May 24, 2015
Worth visiting Moscow for the Metro alone;The Moscow Metro must be the most spectacular transport facility in the world. Each station has its own peculiar interest often thematic.The story of Moscow in the 20th century is shown in the development of the metro. The trains are often old but come with incredible regularity. The metro is a delightful place to visit and equally good as a transport facility. It is also incredibly inexpensive to use.;5;May 24, 2015
Take a guided tour of the Moscow metro;This is my advice as the metro has 139 stations and you do not know which to visit. We had an amazing guide called Tatjana and we stopped at 12 stations on different lines - it is a very complicated metro as the samew station has a different name when it is on several lines it has a name for each line - this really confuses things.Overall it is incredible, we are talking about museums - not metro stations and the cleanliness is unbelievable when you consider 7 million people use it every day and it is open from 5 a.m. until 1 p.m. - only when closed do they have time to clean the glittering chandeliers.The tour is inexpensive - about 700 roubles - and you are lost without a guide. Do nto try to go it alone as you will be sure to miss some outstanding architecture.;5;May 23, 2015
excursion to Moscow old metro stations;Metro in Moscow is not only transport facility, but also is very interesting regarding historical and artistic value. There are many old (1940-1960) stations, mainly in the сenter, which have beatiful decorations, marmor and bronze statues, mosaics, ets. It's like a museum. I suggest to visit Moscow metro with а guide to get full information.;4;May 20, 2015
Makes flagstaff station look like a bus stop in bagdad;From my experience the metro in moscow is the most beautiful and frequent in the world. It is truly stunning. Visit all stops on the central line.;5;May 19, 2015
Elegance from old times!;If you are looking for a metro modern infrastructure you will not enjoy this. The fascination of walking along the Metro of Moscow is in let yourself be enveloped by this journey into the past that invites the architecture, historical paintings, floor, lighting almost museum of this Metro that run thousands of people every day.;5;May 18, 2015
Words are inadeqate to describe the metro.;In June 2014 we visited Moscow and St Petersburg. A thrilling country but the Moscow Metro was such a surprise! It is beautiful with great paintings and sculptures. Considering that millions pass through it daily I was amazed at how scrupulously clean it was. Don't miss this!;5;May 18, 2015
Great experience;Muscovites are proud to have the world’s most beautiful metro, which has become a symbol of the capital’s combination of technological achievements, culture and art. The metro carries about nine  million people every day, with the minimum headway being only 90 seconds — these are the best figures in the world.Have you ever noticed that when a train moves toward the city center a male voice announces the stations,but  when it moves toward the suburbs,announcements are made by a female voice? On circular lines the principle is as follows: when the train moves clockwise a male voice is used, and when it moves counter-clockwise it switches to a female’s voice. This  is done in order to help blind people. We have a text written about the subway www.bigtimemoscow.com;5;May 17, 2015
Impressive metro;Very impressive metro stations .. One of the best looking in the world. We felt the speed of the metro trains very high compared to other cities.the station platforms have beautiful roofs.. Marble etc. The escalators are really very huge. Some thing worth while to experience;5;May 16, 2015
Efficient but difficult with kids;We used Moscow metro during our visit. This is the one of the most efficient metros in the world. Metro stations looks like museums and the frequency of trains also very good. But we were unable to find any lifts inside the metro and we faced lot of issues while traveling with our kid and his baby stroller. The long escalators was another problem.;4;May 15, 2015
A ride to remember;I had been told a lot about the artistic Moscow metro but had not expected this. Bronze sculptures on every alcove and wall-to-wall murals across the ceilings. Tasteful engravings and wooden inlay everywhere and signature Moscow lanterns casting shadows along the main walk-ways. This was a unique and tasteful affair where everyone kept to themselves and everyone kept the place clean. Make sure to visit the station near to Red Square for the full experience.Excellent!;5;May 15, 2015
The greates metro system in the World;The most impressive subway stations in the world.  Every station is different and beautiful. Luxurious stone work, marble everywhere, grand murals… just too incredible. The New York subway is like a portable toilet compared to the Plaza washroom. Even the Paris metro does not compare… I guess those II War prisoners really did great work.;4;May 14, 2015
It is at the Same Time beautiful and efficient;Coming from Switzerland i am used that things work, but the Metro in Moscow impresses me Even After several  visits. The Ticket System is simple, buy a One time Ticket for 50 Rubels and you can go, no complicated pricing. Without a Ticket you Cannot enter. On any Platform there is only One line coming to both directions, praktikable you Cannot make a Mistake. Every linke has a Color and Number. The Stadions are beautiful and it is Worthh just to go and See. Whiteboard Station you like, you can leave the Train, watch the Station and take One of the next Trains. They just keep coming, eben on Weekends. On a normal working day, the Metro is crowded and People might push you. So in you avoid the Busy Hours, it is better. In the Train People are asked to let elderly, Woman and children sit, and it really is Done. This is beautiful to See as in a Lot of countries it is Not like this anymore. Be Aware when you Plan to go with the Metro that when Stations  have Different names, the Way can be Long to go to the next Train. If you Plan to you the Metro more often it is advisible to use the Troika Card which reduces the Price for every Trip and can be used for many People as well. Buy the Tickets in Advance as the Queues can be Long. Enjoy the Metro.;5;May 14, 2015
Beautiful. Oh and very handy for getting around.;In response to an earlier review critisising it for having no english, can I ask if the London, Paris or New York systems have signs in Cyrillic? No.Do yourself a favour and learn enough of the language to recognize stations, which platforms to use, which exit to head for etc and the metro will be an easy, cheap and sometimes breathtaking means of traversing the city. I never felt any less at ease than I have on any other underground system, and a lot less so than I do on London's tiny little platforms and cramped little trains.;5;May 13, 2015
Wow......;If I were asked to vote for one thing that left me speechless on our Russian trip, it would be the " Moscow metro". Its looks more like a grand ballroom or a museum than a public transport system. I was told that it was also meant to be used as a bunker for the citizens on case of bombings.I have never seen such splendid architecture in a metro I was told that each stations have their own characteristics depending on when and by whom it was built. There are many stories associated with the various statues and I suggest going with someone who can show them to you or take a guided tour.;5;May 9, 2015
A great adventure in itself;Before our trip to Moscow, I felt quite intimidated by the thought of using public transport. No nee.,The ticket machines have a button to switch to English language, the journeys are cheap and the trains efficient. Buy 5 journeys at a time.What we did not know is that almost every station is a work of art in itself. Stained glass, porcelain, woodwork, ceramics, statues and chandeliers. So, we did a tour of our own making, getting off at each station, have a look around and then continue on. It doesn't cost any more unless you exit the station.Of course the signs on the platforms are in cyrillic script but we never got lost once. We visited the longest escalator in the world at Park Pobedy station, took the 3 min ride up, then back down and back on the train.Really great for people watching too and something to do when it is raining.;5;May 9, 2015
Metro which has monumental stations;Never seen a metro of any City which has so much art and history at its various stations. We started form victory park and needed it at Kremlin. Saw 3-4 stations. All of them have a unique character with various bronze statues and mosaic depicting various historical events in Russian History.;4;May 9, 2015
Clean, fast, inexpensive and great art.;We used the Metro to get around Moscow and found it to be inexpensive, and fairly easy to work out where you were.  We did have one problem on the blue line where the station names bore no resemblance to our map.  We had heard stories about the Moscow police demanding papers etc but they were great making sure that we were on the right line after we asked them for help. One thing we found out is that you don't have to have an individual ticket for each person you can just swipe the card reader twice or three times depending on how many people are in your group. The ticket will read how many trips you have left as you swipe it.  You do not need the ticket to exit just go through the turnstiles.  Some of the art work and statues were amazing.  Well worth getting off at several stations just to have a look around as each one is different.  Another plus it will not cost you to get on and off trains or change lines providing you don't exit.;5;May 8, 2015
Very impressive!;My wife had continually emphasised to me how impressive the various metro stations were in Moscow. Of course she was right and during my holiday in Moscow we regularly visited a great number of stations as we travelled round. There are a great variety of stations, wonderful marble decorations, large pieces of art, with the main theme being the war and Stalinist Russia. Please take a little time to look at the detail in the various stations as each has a story to tell. Highly recommended.;5;May 7, 2015
Nicely maintained;Now that Moscow is getting tourists, they should put metro signs in english as well. Enjoyed some of the stations which are nicely decorated.;5;May 7, 2015
Scenic stations;I didn't use the metro as a form of transportation to get around the city. Went to a couple stations as part of a tour. I was impressed with how clean they were. There were murals and statues to enhance the visual affect of the stations. You take a long escalator ride down to get to the trains.;4;May 7, 2015
The Moscow Metro?;If this is not the most beautiful metro in the world than I don't know what to say. So many pieces of art, lovely decoration and unique place in the World. The metro travels fast and you will only wait for a maximum of 2 minutes. PS: Don't forget to pet the dog statue in the PLOSHCHAD’ REVOLYUTSII metro station, they say it's for good luck :);4;May 7, 2015
A remarkable experience;Having read about the design features and the history of the Moscow Metro it was fascinating to experience them first hand. They are well worth a visit and are truly magnificent, if you get a chance to visit, you really should.;4;May 3, 2015
Surprisingly functional;I am not the one who would admire the Metro's visualisations of totalitarian Soviet regime signs and symbols which to me and many others in this part of Europe remind mostly of milions of Gulag victims to say nothing of daily oppressions under red star sign. But I will readily admire Moscow metro is very functional and efficient. Cheap,mnever let me down. Perhaps I was lucky to Travel off peak most of the time and missed some of the notoriously crowded day times, but still the Moscow metro looked to me as more reliable than London or Paris, comparable in size. And a lot cheaper.;4;May 3, 2015
amazing metro;Moscow metro is amazing. it is like a museum and every station is defferent. the moscow metro is very cheap and clean;5;May 3, 2015
Amazing metros;We were awestruck with various metro stations in Moscow. Each metro station is worth getting down to appreciate its lighting, chandeliers, designs, motifs, as no two metro stations are same.Just purchase one ticket of 50  rubble and arm your self with metro map and enjoy the metro ride as well as get down on each station ( even change lines ) and go on clicking photos. Can keep half a day for this tour. Worth it.;5;May 2, 2015
Museum;The cheapest and such a beautiful museum...you did not feel like in Metro...you do not know where to look first.;5;May 1, 2015
The most amazing metro;I spent couple of hours just visiting the metro stations. And it was the best of Moscow for me. The stations are splendid and very clean. Just buy a ticket and simply get off and on at stations you want to see. Some of them are a must like Ploshad Revolutsii, Mayakovskaya, Komsomolskaya or Novoslobodskaya. But try also the new stations - I really liked Dostoyevskaya.;5;April 30, 2015
perfect;I use the Moscow metro daily .It never fails me or lets me down . you don't have to run to catch the train because the next will be in less than one minute. Also the sculptures are amazing . at the beginning i was like I want to see everything but now it is ok I know everything about it .One last thing It is easy to take the metro and go wherever you want . the metro map is everywhere and people are friendly and will guide you;5;April 29, 2015
Like a visit to a Museum;It seem a daft thing to say but no visit to Moscow is complete without a Tour of the Metro. Buy your ticket and get off and on at as many stations as you can. It is like a Museum visit the sculptures and mosaics are incredible. The cleanliness of the station is unreal and there is no smell of fumes etc.;5;April 28, 2015
Overcrowded. Overheated. But awesome.;If your are a tourist, spend one evening in Moscow metro. Avoid rush hours (start your tour at 8-9p.m), avoid football matches (easy to understand -- you'll see police with/or weared helmets on each station), avoid new stations (at the end of each line - they look cheap). Seach Internet for pictures and choose most attractive stations - either Revolution Square with bronze sculptures or Mayakovskaya with brilliant mosaics on the ceiling (beware of pickpockets/gypsies whilу tilting your head), Novoslobodskaya with stained glasses on each column or Kropotkinskaya with beige star-shape columns converting to white stars on ceiling -- here you may exit to see Christ the Saviour Cathedral in the evening.;5;April 28, 2015
Fantastic;Has to be seen to be believed. The details and sculptures are amazing. The actual trains were quite good as well.;5;April 26, 2015
Back to USSR;Great for people, who love socialistic art. A lot of stations have great art pieces. Just the modern promotion shouldn`t be there, but capitalism has revived science the great times. :-(;5;April 26, 2015
A sight on its own!;I was a bit daunted using the metro which is all mainly having its stops written and spoken in Russian. After a bit of research and reading on TA, the journey on the metro proves to be quite simple. Might be bit tricky with the language barrier but with some sign language and map it is doable.Tickets can be purchased from the counter. It is per ride, meaning you can change lines as many times as you need as long as you do not exit the station. When you tap the metro card it would show you how many rides left on the display. The platforms would indicate which direction you are heading by showing the next station the train would stop at with arrows indicating. Follow the colours of the line you are taking as  you would see signs on the overhead and also on the floor of the station. Counting the stops you need to get off might work as the announcements in the trains are mainly in Russian and sometimes there are no electronic indicator to show which stop you are at.Downloading the metro app helped tremendously in telling you the lines you need to take and if you need to change lines to get to your destination.Enjoy the wide marble lined tunnels and the beautiful mosaics when you walk through the station towards your train. It is a sight to behold.;4;April 21, 2015
very artistic metro stations;I took the metro to go to the international airport. Many stations I saw look like the inside of a museum. This is impressive and more interesting then metro stations in most Western cities.The metro is reliable, the coaches spacious, the trains quite fast. The only problem I had was that everything was written in Cyrillic, and I was afraid to miss the station I was looking for. But it didn't happen.;5;April 20, 2015
Metro;The most beautiful subways in the world . Painted , decorated and magnificent . History of a nation in another story . Be sure to use it because it is the fastest transport in Moscow.;5;April 20, 2015
old comfortable metro;this is the best way to get anywhere in Moscow, the trains are really fast and you don't have to wait for it much time. Tickets are fixed price, and you can use the metro endlessly without going out));5;April 20, 2015
Just follow: выход (Exit) and вход (Entry);As first time traveler to Moscow, I found that Metro Moscow is easy to follow. Although at first I am bit worried with the letter/spelling. I am travelling from Moscow Domodedovo to Yaroslavl. So I am using Aeroexpress, Metro Moscow and Train. Sometimes it can be confusing in some station to find where is Metro vs Subtrain vs Other.My advise is try to follow this выход (Exit) and вход (Entry) to help you find the way, e.gвыход в город (Exit to City);5;April 20, 2015
The most beautiful metro in the world;Having travelled around the world and seen a number of metros, I admit that the Moscow one is the most beautiful. It can't be compared with the ones in Paris, London, Beijing, Hong-Kong, Ir somewhere in Latin America. Each station is unique and devoted to this or that historic event. It's a real treasure (not talking about the transportation efficiency). I put 4 just because I don't think you should get a separate excursion to see it as during the Moscow stay you will most probably have enough of them. I think it'd just better to use the Moscow metro as a transportation method.;4;April 18, 2015
Magic Underground!;We were shown the wonderful Metro by our guide seeing the best stations and experiencing the trains, some of which seemed rather ancient!But it is an experience you should not miss - the Art is quite amazing.;5;April 18, 2015
Pretty patterns;Obviously the Metro is a functional thing to get you from A to B. But this is Moscow, so it does it in style. I used around 10 stations during my stay and no two looked the same - there's marble and mosaics and statues and so many beautiful things. Plus it only costs around 50p for a single journey. Love it!;5;April 17, 2015
Moscow's unserground treasure;To see the Moscow's subway is a must, when visiting Moscow. We took a guided tour with the same guide by Free Tour of Moscow, only that the subway tour we paid for and it was definitely worth it. Irina took us to ten different stations, each with different style and symbols and explained stories behind.;5;April 17, 2015
metro - museum of moscow;Metro of moscow looks complicated but it is notthe problems are that you cant find somebody WHO speak english easy, but i am sure at least you will find the way....Metro of moscow surprised you at the beginning how big is and how old too,one of the oldest Metro in the history,every station is like museum, with sculptures and decorations Special, very beautiful even if you dont love use Metro you have to visit even once one of the Stations, especially central ones.....;4;April 17, 2015
Excellent transport;There are a lot of beautiful stations in Moscow metro.However it's not a good idea for a tourist to travel in metro during rush hours (7-10 a.m.; 6-8 p.m.) on working days.;5;April 16, 2015
ADMIRE;Must be one of the cheapest entries into what I called a museum visit .Get off at each station ,admire and move on to the next .Every one has a different character.Some I felt were a bit OTT but none the less very,very interesting.Visiters staying in the city centre get out into the metro. You won't be disappointed.The cost could be as little as £1.Its an adventure too.;4;April 14, 2015
Get a russian metro map;the trick to getting around on the metro is not to use an english metro map but get one instead that has the stations actually written in Russian on it.The signs are all written in Russian and not english so english station names aren't of much assistance to you.Once you know the Russian names you are looking for and the line code colour then it is all very easyTicket machines have english option and ticket purchase is very easyFar cheaper than being ripped off in taxi's;4;April 13, 2015
Works!;The Metro is the easiest and cheapest way to get around. It is quite clean, just the cars are rather old and loud. All stations are very beautiful and are worth being checked out.;5;April 12, 2015
You must ride the metro;This is the pride of the Stalin era and still impressive today.  The longest escalators lead you to beautiful stations.  Worth the trip;4;April 12, 2015
Style tube!;Actually one of the most beautiful underground architectural colossus ever built. You must take a tour into the golden ring to appreciate the magnificence of ancient station: marble, crystals, mosaics are demonstrating how big was the Russian power.;4;April 10, 2015
the most amazing Metro in the world;Its not a Metro its an Art Galery. Everyone station is diffrent from the other. so clean. Never see better in any other country in the world. i was many times in Moscow and the metro. it was not expencive. you can use it to Airport too. Trafic is so hard in Moscow by metro is better.;5;April 9, 2015
Work of Art;The Moscow metro system is probably my favorite of any I have been on (maybe 10+ different metros.)  The stations are magnificent, you have to see them to believe that a subway system would look so nice, clean, and beautifully crafted.  I don't know of any other cities that have tours dedicated to seeing the metro system.  Each station has its own character and feel.  Oh, and for transportation purposes, the metro is great.  We have been to Moscow a couple times and we are very comfortable using the metro without knowing Russian.  It is cheap and easy to navigate.  There isn't too much under ground walking required when switching trains, etc...  We used the metro multiple times every day we were there.  Also, we were able to fly in to DME, get on the airport train that goes to one of the metro stations.  Get on the metro, make one transfer, and come up at a train station where we would be going on to Vologda.  We did this with each having two large rolling suitcases.  So, I would say it is pretty easy to navigate.  The only thing I regret of the metro stations is that I didn't get enough pics, but that is frowned upon, actually, I think it is illegal.;5;April 8, 2015
well worth seeing.;Our friend who was a resident took us to see some of the more beautiful stations and we were impressed at their beauty and cleanliness.  We were however advised to keep a low profile while there as we visited at a time of high ant-foreigner sentiment.  We were peered at by an older man wearing a Pro-Russia ribbon and he paced in front of us sneering.  Despite this, it is well worth seeing the metro which is very deep and very complex so if you can, go with a local if at all possible.;5;April 8, 2015
Many Cities are not as beautiful as the Moscow metros!!!!;Let's just say you can spend one whole day visiting the various metro stations in Moscow.  Each of them has the unique architecture. One station is full of statues ; there are 4 statues of dogs and make sure you touch rah of the dog nose and ask for a wish !! There is one with ceiling covered with beautiful mosaic , one with glass art , and try are huge station , huge enough for Stalin to hold meetings there !!!!;5;April 8, 2015
OLD IS GOld;Whenever I visit Moscow i always prefer Metro (Subway) only. It’s very convenient to travel in Moscow city. Because Moscow traffic is too terrible in the morning and the evening time. The metro station very clean and the metro have a free Wi-Fi zone.;5;April 7, 2015
Fast, cheap, just good.;My first visit of Moscow metro. The metro itself is good, fast and very cheap (50RUB per ride). I used several lines. It is little bit complicated for somebody who does not understand Russian language. However after we rides, all is quite easy to understand. Just get prepared if you have to use Metro during rush hour (it is pretty overcrowded - but that is same in all bigger cities). To prevent spending a lot of time in car traffic jam, metro is really good choice.;5;April 6, 2015
Excellent experience;Take your time to explorer the life of the russians and see alle the different and stunning decorated Metro stations. It's one of the depeest Metros in the world and contains the longest escalators in Europe, each one is 126 metres long with 740 steps.;5;April 6, 2015
Something different;We hadn't really understood why there was a metro tour until we reached our first metro station! They are phenomenal and such an unexpected surprise. We had a tour guide with us who selected a number of metro stations for us to visit and she explained a lot of the images and their meanings and the significance of the opulent decor. This was useful, however if you have a lonely planet there is a 'do it yourself' version of the metro tour which is also quite good. If you are exploring the city for a few days then try to use the metro as much as possible to see more of the stations. Tickets are easy to purchase using the machines which usually have an English translation button. Or if u go to the counter we found it useful to write down the number of journeys we wanted before we reached the attendant to save time and prevent confusion.Sunday's are a really good day to do the metro tour as the metro is much quieter. Week days it is crazy busy.  You can also download an app of the metro map which we found very useful as it had the stations in the Cyrillic alphabet and also in English so we could compare them. On the wall of each platform there is a sign telling you which direction the train is going in, which stations it will stop at next and which ones you can make changes at for another metro line. It's easy enough to understand once you get your head around the alphabet! We had a lot of fun working it all out and some hidden treasures along the way. Remember if u make a mistake you only have to hop off and catch a train back in the other direction. They are so efficient! The longest we waited for a train ever was 3 and half minutes. Enjoy!;5;April 4, 2015
One of the best and useful attractions!;I try to avoid visiting Moscow at any cost but if really have to go then the metro is a real life saver. Easy to understand and easy to find, fast, minimum waiting time between the trains, overall one of the best places in Moscow :-);5;April 4, 2015
A museum underground;How do you not love the Moscow metro? Oh, right... all those pushy New Yorkers...I mean Moscovites :) Everyone is always running around in a hurry, and if you aren't careful, you WILL get shoved and pushed and pulled and oh god where did my bag go, oh, here it is. Back to looking at the ceiling.Seriously, the Moscow metro is like a museum in itself. Take a train around the ring line, or go to the older stations, built during the Soviet times, and you'll see beautiful mosaics, gorgeous bas reliefs, paintings, bronzed decorations with poetry and songs, chandeliers, you name it. Don't take the metro for what it is - a transportation system that'll get you to almost anywhere in Moscow - take a separate day to just wander the metro stations, and appreciate the art. I'd tell you to go at this time or that time, but that's impossible, because it's ALWAYS filled to the brim with people. So avoid the most obvious rush hours, when people are going to/coming from work, get out of the train, stick to the wall ;) and watch your belongings. And have a great time!;5;April 2, 2015
I prefer this type of transport;Usually on time, but far best type of transportation in the city. In rush hour could be full, but still better than traffic jam on the roads. I can just recommend it. So far-safe place as well.;4;April 2, 2015
I was amazed;In February 2015 I was visiting Moscow and I have used Moscow Metro. I have to say that up to now I was using Metro services in New York, Paris and a sort of a Metro in Germany, which is not a real kind of Metro that is underground, but is still very efficient way of transport they use. If you aks me, Metrow Moscow is the best of all I have seen. First of all, the Moscow Metro looks fantastic. This is especially true for newer stations that literally glow of beauty. Marble slabs are everywhere and the splendor seen on all sides. In addition, the entire Moscow is covered and you can drive wherever you want.I was really amazed and I got in loved with Moscow. It is a really pleasure to see this beauty. If you ever go to Moscow by car, live it somewhere to get some rest and use Metro, you will be much happier.;5;March 30, 2015
Metro / Underground;easy to find, fast, every 3-4 minutes, 0.50 Rub per one ride, easy to buy tickets but only cash accepted. People are friendly, always ready to help.Only minus is about the pushchairs, there is no lifts for people with pushchairs, and you have to carry all the stairs by your self....On escalators you have to be careful, because people standing on one side, and other side, they still walking up and down.;5;March 29, 2015
So efficient and easy to use;It simply saved us a fortune using the Moscow Metro. It's incredibly efficient and easy to use. Just go ahead and use it and if you're having difficulty you'll easily encounter a willing Muscovite that will show you the way!;5;March 29, 2015
Take Care But it is a Great Place;I  have been using the Moscow Metro for years and it is a great place.  Palaces of the People, I think the stations were called.   So many are like beautiful halls with mirrors and hanging lights.   However, I would say that for visitors, this is one of the most confusing places to fins oneself.   If you don't read any Russian it is almost impossible to find one's way around, even with a map translated into English.  Nothing seems to corresspond with the way the London, Paris or other Metros are laid out.  It is so easy to get to the wrong line and then onto the wrong train.  You really need someone who reads Russian to go with you.One tip: if you are travelling, write the name of the station down in RUSSIAN, not translation.  At least then you can try to identify the name.  Despite what people say about Moscow people not being friendly on the metro, they will help someone who is lost.  One friend who was coming to my hotel had a simple metro journey, but managed to get on the wrong train.   A very kind lady actually took her back to the right station and to the right platform.Although I know the metro well and can read and speak Russian (and ask for directions) even now after ten years sometimes I make a mistake.;5;March 29, 2015
Clean & Deep metro stations;Travelling with Metro train was good experience where the metro train stations are really in the deep. Whenever you start goin g underground , you can see that stairs are so long that even you cannot see the another side of starting points. But it is not with all stations only few. Metros Coming on time and normally all stations are clean as well. Although Moscow metro is looks little bit old & the systems is also Old. Over all experience at Metro is good.;4;March 28, 2015
Metro stations are museums too!;You can take the ride just to awe at the awesome stations which are work of art. An the elevators are amazing, once you hop on you can't see their end they are so deep!;5;March 25, 2015
It's quick and efficient as well as having beautiful stations;The stations impress the decoration and detail. Despite the language difference is very easy to get around. The stations are very well signposted, the available map perfectly meets and the people are quite solicitous.;5;March 25, 2015
Beautiful;This Metro is nothing like anyother in the world. The Marbles the statues the metro it self is work of art. It has a deep history in every station which is amazing. Must visit again for any moscow travellers....;5;March 25, 2015
Great space. Excellent people watching.;I spent a  few days in Moscow, and some of the most fun I had was hanging out and people watching on the Metro. The architecture is so different from the transit in my home city of Boston. I felt more like I was in a kind of run-down museum. Ah, but the people! From the most derelict beggar to aspiring super models, the Metro is sure to surprise you.;4;March 25, 2015
A work of art;Moscow's metro system is well designed, highly efficient, and user friendly. If you aren't able to read Russian, you might have a hard time sorting it out without help. Each station is a unique work of art that makes you feel like you've traveled back in time. Get out there and ride those rails!;5;March 25, 2015
Underground art!;While the metro itself is impressive, sometimes taking you down five levels and forcing you to question just how much earth is above you, the themed stations are simply not to be missed.  The metro maps and signs are so easy to read, I had no problem at all navigating by myself.  There are a number of stations that are like little art museums.  We especially enjoyed the tiled ceiling murals displaying Russia's history and the statues of all the common folk.  Since it's best to use the metro to get around anyway, it's basically free.;5;March 24, 2015
nice but not much info in any other lunguage;nice stations but hard to get around since workers in the metro speaking only russian and 99% of the signs are in russian;4;March 24, 2015
underground pallaces;you should take your time and visit some of the best metrostations! It's really worth a visit! It is like walking through palaces and something extraordinary!;5;March 23, 2015
Transportation and an art gallery;The best way to get anywhere in Moscow is the metro with multiple lines going everywhere. All signs are in Russian so make sure you know where you're going or ask someone. With so many people there at least one will know English. And make sure you take the time to check out the art and murals and detailed inlay work. Very beautiful;5;March 22, 2015
KNOWN AS MOST FUNCTIONAL  METRO ON THE PLANET;Most cost effective means of getting around Moscow, cost pennies to go anywhere.Some stations are themed, one with statues and art all over - seems like an art gallery, another a military genre with soldiers (statues) with carbines and cannon, etc.Only problem is the names of places are emblazoned on Metro walls in Cyrillic text, so get to hear the phonetic sound of where you are going and keep asking fellow travelers the name of station which is approaching until you hear the familiar sound.Approach younger people for assistance as they would have learned English at school.;5;March 21, 2015
The most beautiful metro i seen in all my life;When you are in the metro you feel you are in a completly diferent place. you just remember that you are in the metro when the metro actually arrives. its an amazing place. love it;5;March 21, 2015
Must-do visit;The most impressive and beautiful transit system in the world! My favorite stations are Novoslobodskaya,Elektrozavodskaya and Ploschad Revolyutsii... Check out my blog for more inspiration and tips for your Moscow visit:http://bonatravels.com/2015/03/14/what-to-see-in-2-3-freezing-days-in-moscow/;5;March 20, 2015
Undergroun Palaces ;);Each and almost all of the underground stations makes you feel like you are in a museum. Chandelier, wide passages, and you never wait more than a minute for a train, the only downside is, none of the signs are tourist friendly. I would advise to have an English and Russian version of the underground map with you which helped us alot. Bear in mind not everyone speaks English but they do try to help :);5;March 20, 2015
The best metro in the world?;One of the best metros in the world, clearly the most beautiful in the world! It still has the old carriages and the stations are a pure work of art !  Lovely stairs and the sound it's unforgetable!;5;March 17, 2015
It's a museums!!!!;underground No1!!!! Historical!you can feel the history wile visiting these different stations!some of them are really old (20s of past century,but each one is a masterpiece!Some are really palaces!especially of the 40s and 50s,but stations of the 70s-80s are really very simple,just functional .but the new stations (starting from 90s) each of hem is a masterpiece one again.A MUST! But don't go there at the rush hoursBetter to make the trip Sunday afternoon ....real pleasure;5;March 17, 2015
I like the idea of the metro in general.;I think that creation of the metro or subway changed people lifestyle and their views on how the life in a big city should be. I heard a lot about the metro in Moscow, and prior visiting it also listened to the incouraging speeches from my friends. I didnt travel that far across the stations and think found myself just on couple of them. Truthfully it is nice, can't provoce, and it is crowded. Shame on me that saw just couple stations, or may be just one. Still, when you are in the city, use the metro first to understand its citizens.;4;March 17, 2015
unique , amazing but overcrowded;It is really worth seeing, most stations has unique design and look preety niceBut don`t evet try to visit it early morning or 5-8PM - it is overcowded due to people going to/from work;3;March 17, 2015
Some stations are very beautiful;Some Moscow subway stations are very beautiful. But I don't recommend using Moscow subway as a means of transportation.;3;March 17, 2015
one of the best;can you believe that they built this in 1935. the stations look nothing like a metro station rather an opulent lobby. with chandeliers and statues and paintings. this was my lifeline when i was there. could do with later trains though, last train runs at 0100hrs.;5;March 17, 2015
Your not in Kansas any more.;So the Moscow Metro ( Metpo ) is pretty amazing and a bit intimidating for the average not Russian ( can’t  read Cyrillic ). The Metro moves more people then the NYC subway and during rush hour can be over whelming but is the fastest way to get anywhere at that time. It’s also an huge and covers most all of Moscow. We used it everywhere we went with the exception of the airport and train station. Dragging bags could be a real pain as there are stairs all over.So this note is in two parts logistics and beauty. Logistics: use your smart phone it will save you. We have ATT ( 120mb - $30 / 300 - $60 ) also includes text messages and phone in country, Soooo worth it.  We then got the app Yandex ( it also includes the St. Petersburg metro ) that converts from Cyrillic to English and back. You can also put in two stations and it will tell you how and where to transfer. Each line has a color and a number all signs have the number and color associated.  On the back wall is the next 5 or 6 stations match them up and you know you’re on the right line. The first once or twice you try do it on non commute hours. If you get confused just move over to the side and look for signs remember the colors. On the floor you will also find signs in English of the station name, way out etc.  Also you can use google translate to write in Russian Cyrillic take a photo of it and show them. We did this at the train station and the metro with ( is-vanecha yane nemnogoa penny mio parusiki / Excuse me I Understand little Russian ) . The phone will also work wonders once out of the metro mapping you to that final location. We did find some issue here, I think the buildings got in the way. If you wish to Photograph the actual stations I would suggest off hours as much as possible. Sunday night after say 5:00 (17:00 ) is about as good as you can get.  Metro Closes about 1:00 and reopens at 6:00 keep that. Beauty: Many of the metro stops are just amazing works, most of the finer ones are on the brown circle line. Urban Legand states Stalin put his coffee cup on the metro map and no subway engineer dared question it. So the brown line was born. My favorite station was the Dostoyevskaya ( Dostoyevsky station) built in 2010. People were upset it showed a murder. The artist reply: It’s Dostoyevsky what you want people singing and dancing? It is worth the trip on the light green line. Next Polshchad Revolyutsil (Revolution/red Square) red or dark blue line. The brass works are amazing find the lucky dog and rub his nose for good luck. Mayakovskaya: done at the end of the war the stainless and marble are stunning.  Kiyevskaya:with the murals are pretty amazing to see.;5;March 15, 2015
Good;The Metro is brilliant,buy a ticket from the machine,or at the Tacca counter,the signs can be confusing,and hard to know,best thing is to count the number of stops you need...some trains old and dirty,no-one talks or makes eye contact so pretty unfriendly...but a great experience.;5;March 13, 2015
Я заблудился... I'm lost!;The Mosco Metro is great. Make sure you have a Metro Map and if you can't read Russian I suggest you carefully study where you are going before you set off, count the stops and ensure you have your destination written in Russian (use google translate) before you go. And avoid rush hour! Don't expect ticket offices and attendants to help much. Even if you understand Russian the Moscow Metro can be daunting as the signs are often not clear especially if you need to change lines. No eating, drinking or smoking on the Metro so don't try!Having said that, you can travel almost anywhere in Moscow with the Metro and a short walk and unlike the taxi's it's very cheap. Many of the stations are ornate and interesting in their own right, some of the deep stations have long, long escalators that are interesting to ride or exercise on. During the day trains are very frequent so you never wait long. An adventure not to miss!;4;March 12, 2015
Really clean and unique;There are many stations in Moscow and many of them are really nice and unique, amazing art work on the walls and ceilings, statues at different stops. Old school wooden escalators and the train comes every 3 minutes so waiting is almost non existences. For the price of less then $1.00 USD you can visit all the good stations and snap a few pictures. Very clean and safe there is many police officers patrol.;5;March 6, 2015
Beautifully decorated;The thing I was mostly surprise about the Moscow metro (besides Cyrillic) was the decoration and the statues remember the travellers a bit of Russian history.Must said is that since the stairs are quite steeper I had some vertigo, so be prepared.;5;March 6, 2015
One of the most fascinating Metros in the World!;Make sure to take the Metro while in Moscow.  It is cheap and efficient, but more importantly it is gorgeous.  It might be the best Metro in the world!;5;March 3, 2015
The truth on Moscow Metro;I read tons of comments, remarks, articles on the Moscow metro. As you WILL use it here are some good-to-know things.It is true that this is probably the most exciting network due to the fact that back in Stalin's era they prepared for a nuclear war and the Metro system was not only a way of transporting the masses but also a potential atomic bunker - at least some parts. Hence stations are deep which means rides on the escalator might take 3-4 minutes. It also means that the elite wanted to make sure that the stations are nice. Gold, chandelliers, white stuccos are common in the central stations. Kievskaya was my favourite one.There are many connection points or intersections, so to say. It might take you up to 10-12 minutes to get from 1 line to the other.Nowadays there are way out signs and lines' names where you can transit to are also in English - look on the ground you will find those pieces of information there.If you don't read and speak Russian take these steps:1. Print a metro map at home with both Russian and English names.2. Look for the colors - you will know where you are when you have a look at the platforms on the wall. All station names will have small dots next to them representing the color of the line.3. Yes, lines have different colors, always check these as they are a lot easierr to follow than names if you can't read Cirilic.4. If you look for something easy to understand, ask a policemen, they are much nicer than you would think. They are happy to show you directions. Pay attention to what they show and not what they say as it will be probably in Russian.5. When you need tickets say the number of rides (tickets are available baseed on number of entrances) you want to cover - these can be 1,3,5,11,20 etc. For 4 days 11 can be enough but it all depends on your willingness to walk.Safety is not an issue at all except for the heavy doors that people do not hold for the one coming behind them.;5;March 2, 2015
Surprising!;It sounds like a strange idea for a visit but some of the stations are truly beautiful with Art Deco , stained glass and sculptures. Well worth seeing.;4;March 2, 2015
Super Clean would be the Key;When we used Moscow's subway last July, 2014, we descended down and down and down into the platforms.  It was SO clean and bright!  But it was good we had a guide to tell what subway stop to get off.  The map of the subway stops listed above the doors were in Russian only.  But one feels very safe in the subway.;5;February 28, 2015
Treasures beneath the road.;When you think of underground/metros you would never expect what lies beneath Moscow.Beautiful statues, mosaics, pictures, history.Each station has it's own works of art, it's history is detailed for people to read.  It makes very interesting reading while you wait for your train.We took a tour with our very own tour guide, she was brilliant at making each and every station tell it's own story.This metro is unique, if you have the opportunity to visit Moscow I suggest you travel the metro,  you won't regret it, it is quite an experience.;5;February 28, 2015
Fabulous;Loved the metro stations, just beautiful, all individual and sumptuous. You could do a tour of them but we just found the ones we thought we would like the most in our guidebook and worked our sightseeing around seeing them. Spectacular.;5;February 28, 2015
Tour of the Moscow Metro Stations (Moscow Free Tour);Very interesting and unexpected "discovery".  Some of the Metro Stations look like rooms at a major museum (for a good reason: some marbles and decorations come from old monuments/churches).  I recommend that you have a guide who can fill you in on some of the interesting details, including the history.  We took the tour by "Moscow Free Tour" with "Annia" as our guide.  She made a big difference with her energy, enthusiasm, and joyfulness.  Her knowledge of the history of the stations and the interspersed images from the Soviet era completed the tour very nicely.;5;February 28, 2015
Take time to enjoy the stations!;I visited a friend in Moscow so I never had to worry about understanding signs or getting off at the correct station. She rode with me everywhere I went. She also shared some history of the metro system and we took some time to visit several stations just to see the design/artistry of each. It was quite impressive! Don't forget to look up! Sometimes the art is concentrated on the ceiling and if you don't look up you will miss it. Of course the metro is public transportation so it's a great way to get around town too :-);4;February 28, 2015
Metro;deep, beautiful and mysterious ...i think it's depth was more than 100 meters. i haven't seen such a nice metro in my life;5;February 27, 2015
bravo,anya;my husband and i were visiting moscow for three days,so we desided to take the metro tour with anya from moscow free tour.we made the reservation on citydiscovery.com who booked the tour with Moscow Free Tour and unfortunately they gave us wrong information about the meeting point.after freezing outside for half an hour we finally found anya,our guide who was fantastic!she  was sweet,warm,friendly,pleasant and spoke english very well.anya told us very interesting stories,she gave us information about russian history and culture and shown us additional photos which helped imagine how the metro used to be decorated during stalin's era.we highly recommend this tour,especially in winter!;5;February 25, 2015
It's not metro. It's MUSEUM;The best and most beautifull subway I've ever seen. Its like a big museum . you should see it. The art of russia is down under the city ❤️;5;February 25, 2015
Too crowded and too noisy;I have to commute to work and back home every dsy, including Saturday. If you are eatly, say, 7am,  then you may find a seat, 10 minutes late and all the seats are occupied within seconds.Be careful when you are approaching the ending stations. If you are napping, be ready to see (or feel) pickpockets.People seem to be angry. Actually, it's not quite true. People are nice. The weather is gloomy and makes us feel gloomy.We usually stand up to offer the seats to elderly people, pregnant women. I can't say I saw a lot of this in other capital cities or big cities.The price is reasonable, 50 cents per travel.  If you buy 10 or more travels, the price is lower. A month ticket is much more cheaper and you use it in the buses, trams and trolleys as well.In summer it is hot in carriages. Not every carriage has air conditioning. But the best place to have a date is the metro.;3;February 23, 2015
Use the subway;We had no problems using the metro with our family of 5.  Of course visiting the ones that are works of art is a must.  We also visited the one with the longest escalator...kids loved that.  The metro is cheap and get a map that shows the Latin wording.;5;February 22, 2015
Easy transport and tourist attraction both in one;A tourist does not frequently have the opportunity to exploit the transport conveniences of a city and at the same time admire its architecture and history.  This is the Moscow Metro which one may use as a cheap and easy Moscow transport and at the same time use it as a tourist attraction.;4;February 21, 2015
Awesome;I went on a cruise which went to St Petersburg and we took the overland to Moscow. We left the ship and flew there.... Wowww right!  The Metro was one of our stops during the tour...We took the escalator wowww, I was trying to snap a pic and not topple over as we were told to keep our hands down.... talk about the deepest escalator ever, a lil scary but fun never-the-less..Awesome. We moved around the underground station which was absolutely gorgeous, i have never seen anything like it...and it was fascinating with the statues of people here and there and the mosaics. Our tour allowed us to go for a train ride .. cant go into the metro and not go on the train right!;5;February 20, 2015
Really nice!;Not new, but very clean, well organized, people really gentle and safe to move. Also many stations has lots of beautiful statues remembering past wars and heroes. Must seen, its almost a Museum.;5;February 20, 2015
Fantastic Experience;We got around Moscow sightseeing, firstly, with a tourist guide, and, secondly, with a distant cousin, using the amazing Metro.Because the Metro goes under the rivers, the stations are very deep underground, the first time i thought i was on an escalator to the underworld.All the stations i saw are like museums, great artwork, intricate mosaics. Almost tempted to miss a few trains just to see the architecture.Luckily i was with a local each time, but if you can recognise the Cyrillic Russian spelling of your destination, you should be fine.Like all major European cities it is often easier and cheaper to use the Metro than getting around by other means.;4;February 19, 2015
Palace for people;Stations are so beautiful and so diverse - you can forgive lack of Eng navigation. Not to mention it costs nothing in comparison with the West.;5;February 19, 2015
Be careful in rush hour;It is important to have the right choice of stations and to go in the right time. The first stations of the Moscow metro - exquisitely designed and richly decorated in spite of "severe economic difficulties" - were built in the 1930-1950s (before, during and after the war).  That was one of Stalin's projects to manifest the advantages of socialism and to impress the West. It's worth seeing.;5;February 19, 2015
Impressive;I had always heard that the Moscow metro was like being in a museum. And I couldn't agree more! Many of the stations are absolutely amazing. It's really worth to spend time underground and stop to admire them. Besides, the metro works perfectly and tickets are inexpensive. But learn Cyrillic because all signs are in Russian...;5;February 19, 2015
Underground Art Museums;A trip to Moscow would never be complete without a visit to and a ride on the Moscow Metro. Every station that we visited…we rode 4 stops in one direction and 4 in another…is loaded with artwork or all kinds. Beautiful mosaics depicting various aspects of Soviet history…statues...chandeliers (yes, chandeliers!) and the thing that impressed me the most (actually, impressed me throughout all of Moscow and St. Petersburg), not one piece of litter anywhere…the floors and streets were spotless. No graffiti either. The Russians take a great deal of pride in their cities and it shows. The Metro stations are all beautiful. Don't miss this experience!;5;February 18, 2015
Some stations are amazing;Moscow metro is worth visiting especially the oldest stations. It has a rich history, which shows the mentality of Russian people. The architecture of some stations is impressive and unforgettable. If you are in Moscow, don't miss the chance to visit under our capital to feel the spirit of Moscovities.;5;February 18, 2015
Amazingly Clean and Easy to  Get Around;I have had the pleasure of using the metro systems in a few large cities to get around, and I can say without a doubt that the Moscow Metro is amazing. I always take the time to people watch whenever I get the chance. In the case of the Moscow Metro that meant sitting on one of the nice benches in the station and watch as the masses of people quickly get onto and off of the trains that arrive like clock work every minute or two. The art work that is each unique station is also quite impressive and is in complete contrast to some of the boring dull metros in other major cities.If you are in Moscow, be sure to check out the metro. You'll be surprised/;5;February 18, 2015
Great transport system - just avoid rush hours if possible.;One of the best, cleanest and most beautiful underground metro systems. Many of the stations are simply worth a visit to see the beautiful designs, even the newer stations are often impressive. This fastest way to cross this massive city by land and its far cleaner than London. But like most cities, it is VERY crowded in the morning then again at 6pm. Access for disabled, especially wheelchairs is often basic/poor.;4;February 18, 2015
metro in Moscow;It is rather complicated for a foreigner. but central stations are woth seein as specimens of Soviet Stalin style architecture.;3;February 18, 2015
Moscow metro is not just an efficient means of transportation but also a museum;Moscow metro is very beautiful. Almost each station is a small museum or at least a historical attraction. The history of Moscow metro has started in 1935 and is a unique reflection of the Soviet era. Even the stations situated in the outskirts of Moscow and biult before Perestroyka are a very good example of the epoch.;5;February 18, 2015
It might be the best part of your trip to Moscow;The Moscow metro is beautiful itself, no need any words. Just you will enjoy more if you stop and look over, look up and notice details, lines on the ceiling, walls. The best time to visit without hurry is after 8 pm I guess, when no traffic.There are many metro tours but if you are not up for it or just like to discover on your own, I reccomend you to buy the book called "Moscow Metro. Guide". There two, in Russian and in English. You will enjoy yourself and bring the nice present from Moscow to friends. My foreign frends and me can confirm!;5;February 18, 2015
Must see!;Don't miss Moscow Metro! It is definitely one of the most special Moscow tourist sights and at the same time it is cheapest and fastest public transportation. It is clean, safe, efficient (trains come and go with interval 40 sec - 2 minutes). Navigation could be better but Metro designers keep working on it. Its main attraction is architecture and artistic design. Visit stations on the circular line - each one is the masterpiece. Novoslobodskaya is famous for its stain glass windows, Komsomolskaya will impress you with giant mosaics on the ceiling and magnificent chandeliers. Byelorusskaya, Kievskaya, Taganskaya stations - all are different and stunning!;5;February 18, 2015
Wonderful experience;The Moscow Metro is something that has to be done. My wife and I have just got back from a long weekend in Moscow, and the Metro makes getting around quick, easy, and cheap. All the trains run perfectly on time, and are well signed. Also well worth doing a tour of the Metro to get to know about the history and visit some of the stunning stations, some of which take your breath away. We used the Moscow a Free Tour company, which was fantastic. We started the day with a free walking tour of the min Moscow City sites, then took the optional Metro tour for a small cost. It was worth every rouble.;5;February 18, 2015
The "reall" Russian Feeling;I always wondered why my Russian friends talked about the Moscow Subway as being something special.When we went down Kosomolskaya to Belaruskaya on the ring the massiveness of the construction just took the breath out of me. When you try to imagine what it took to build this underground system I could not help it but think of the Pyramids.So have a go, feel the Soviet union artifacts in the half light and enjoy the ride that millions of Russians take every day.;5;February 16, 2015
Must see in Moscow;Must see when traveling to Moscow. Take a separate tour with guide to visit stations built before 60's. Weekend only, as it is overcrowded during business days;5;February 15, 2015
Simply stunning!;We used the metro many times, although hectic during peak hours, I was always breath taken by not only the mosaics within the stations but the complete underground system. Although the system is old, it runs like a well oiled machine.We used the metro many times, although hectic during peak hours, I was always breath taken by not only the mosaics within the stations but the complete underground system. Although the system is old, it runs like a well oiled machine and is cheap. Use Moscow's metro, it's easy and well worth you're time, it's a sight within itself!;5;February 15, 2015
The grand metro;Its just wonderful to see and travel through decades old coaches of the Russian metro. The grandeur of metro stations is by far mind boggling.The chandeliers hanging in many of stations manifest it.;4;February 14, 2015
Must Experience;I think Moscow Metro is the most convenient way to travel in Moscow. There is a heavy traffic on the roads especially at rush hours. Traveling by Metro is easy, cheap and fast. Each station is different from the other one. Actually the types, design of the stations changing according to their building periods. If you have an interest you should read previously before going to Moscow. You will see statues of Lenin, signs of Soviet Unions which make you feel that you are traveling to past. Generally it is impossible to see signs at Latin Alphabet. There are smart phone applications showing the station names both in Kiril and Latin Alphabet. I recommend you to download one before going to Moscow.;5;February 12, 2015
Stately metro;When you enter this metro think you made a mistake , you're in the subway instead entered in a museum that is not marked on the map , or in a theater , but then thundering train , and you remain stunned by the beauty around you;5;February 12, 2015
Moscow Metro;What can I say else that others reviwes?Moscow is a huge city, so, to use the metro is a very efficient and quick way to move from a place to other. But, first of all, every station is a MUSEUM, is a MUST SEE, is an amazing experience. And think that most of theese stations were build during the second world war....;5;February 12, 2015
Recommended for traveling across Moscow;Metro was easy to use, convenient, and (as others have said) a bit of an art exhibit. It was busy during the off hours. Main advantage of the Metro as compared to street travel (cab, car) is the speed in moving across the city to points of interest. Highly recommended.;5;February 12, 2015
Metro a must see;The Metro in Moscow certainly lived up to my expectations - every station was different, the mosiacs were beautiful, and there was no graffiti.  The trains were fast, clean, and crowded, and seemed to arrive every two minutes or so.  A great way to get around Moscow, but also a great art experience - not to be missed.;5;February 11, 2015
the most spectacular metro stations in the world;moscow among other things most be recognize as the city with the most spectacular  museum type of metro train stations in the world is one of the tourist atractions of Russia(Moscow) one of the ways to recognize your station is by learning the first 3 or 4 words of the name of the station because as long as is cyrilic language is not very easy to learn or pronounce good luck;5;February 11, 2015
speedy and efficient;The Moscow metro is a whole different experience. Despite its age it is efficient and quick. The easiest way around town. Moving a million or so people a day easily. The best tip i can give is take a pic of your station name so you can find it again as a lot of the names look to us westerners the same and count the stops. When busy do not get deep into the train or you won't get out again at your stop, similar to the Paris metro at rush hour. Very cheap, if you just go to the ticket window and hold up five fingers you will get a five journey ticket for next to nothing.;4;February 9, 2015
Most Beautiful, Awe-Inspiring Metro Stations on Earth;The Moscow Metro stations are basically art museums. Each is totally different. The stations are nothing short of awe inspiring. They were most built under Stalin's direction to promote the arts and add enormous beauty to the city.Buy a Metro ticket and get off at every station, re-boarding after you have had a good look around each station. Then cross over to trains in the other direction to travel back to where you started. You can easily spend an entire day traveling from station to station -- all for very little money.;5;February 8, 2015
Staff not helpful at all!;It'd have been perfect if it wasn't for its staff, not helpful at all. Very large network, it gets you around  Moscow no probs. and very conveniently too...;4;February 6, 2015
Central stations are pretty;Tourists should bear in mind that moscovites don't see Moscow metro as an architectural masterpiece or tourist attraction, they perceive it as a means of transport. So don't be surprised if someone pushes you or otherwise disturbs you - metro is very busy almost all the time.;3;February 6, 2015
moscow;the subway in Moscow is very different than any other place or subway in the world, i was actually very surprised to see what i saw;5;February 5, 2015
Moscow subway - must see !;Take a ride in Moscow trains . Come out at every station and take a look. Every station is a museum on its own with sculptures and mosaics, and with history. Amazing! Clean - no litter, no rats! Trains run nonstop. Escalators actually work! What a shame for New York subway in comparison.;5;February 3, 2015
A Beautiful mass transit system? It is true!;There cannot be any mass transit system like this. I have been on mass transit systems in many cities but they are usually coldly efficient and functional. It is as if the brain goes into some kind of stasis until the destination is reached. I had some time to kill on my last visit to Moscow so I did a self-guided tour of the stations, basically getting off at each station and having a walk round. There are many which are amazing- Christy Prudiy is astounding but my favourite is Ploshad Revolutsiia. I spent some time there looking at the beautiful bronze statues of the Russian farmers, writers, children and pilots. There are dozens of statues which makes it in itself a mini-museum. My favourite, like many others is the frontier guard with his dog. There are two nearly identical statues, both of which are Moscow favourites. You can tell because each dog has a very well polished nose because of the number of people who touch it for luck. Some of the stations still have that art nouveau look to them, a very stylised form of architecture, and some are like churches, with baroque style arches and chandeliers.  From the glorious to the banal, the system works well as a metro. It is clean, very safe and efficient. It is easy to navigate as the pattern of the metro is that of s spider's web. The maps in every part of each station do have the English translation of the cyrillic station names, so its easy even for us who have poor Russian language skills. It does get busy though, but no worse than the London Underground at times.  One thing that is uncomfortable is the heat -  even in the depths of winter it can be uncomfortably hot, and I visit Moscow often in the depths of winter, and I always have a thick winter coat on , and I find myself becoming uncomfortably hot on the journey. Many Muscovites understand this and it is quite possible to cross from one part of Moscow to the other, visit shopping centres and supermarkets without actually being outside for more than a very few minutes.;5;February 2, 2015
Subterranean palaces;When you take metro every day, you don't notice lots of nice things about it.  In face the central part is very pretty.  If you don't speak Russian and it is your first time in the city, do take the guide not to miss all the interesting details in the metro.  There is actually the Metro museum situated in the southern vestibule of the Sportivnaya metro station. It is open at odd hours, like Thursdays from 2 pm to 6 pm and the ladies who work there don't speak a word of English.And do plan the tour in the metro in the off-peak hours)));5;February 2, 2015
Moscow metro is a must see;Make sure you see the metro station not during Rush hour. Central ring are the most beautiful old stations. Do not bother about the radials.;5;January 30, 2015
Efficient but bit hard to navigate;Very efficient with a lot of stations all over the city. As Moscow is huge there are more than 180 stations (!) trains are rapid and modern. All the signs in Russian so if you don't speak/read the local language, you need to be a pretty good navigator in order not to get lost. The signs with the "plan" for each line (stations, connections with other lines etc.) are on the platform "outside" walls, so when a train is there it hides those signs...  Download (or photo with your mobile phone) a complete metro map with the names of the stations in Russian - it will help you a lot !;3;January 28, 2015
artistic metro;the first thing we liked walking into metro station was the heath.....compared to minus 22 degrees C outside, it was hot in the inside. And walking through all those tunnels, so light and artistic, with so many statues, paintings, mosaic....if going to Moscow, you definitely have to take one ride (1 eur) under the ground!;5;January 27, 2015
Amazing Experience;You can find subways around the world like in New York, probably the ugliest, but very large and eficient. Or like in London, perhaps the oldest, deepest and also very large and eficient. But I'm sure that you will not find in the world a subway like in Moskow. It is deep, large, eficient and has a unique characteristic: most of the stations are pure art. Their architeture and decoration are fantastic and beautiful. Realy a museum. Each station is unique and tell something about the russian history, which is very rich. Reserve a full day or more to enjoy this atraction (avoid the rush hours) and do not forget your camera.;5;January 27, 2015
Living museum;The subway stations are an authentic living museum, with so many artworks. They're very deep, so you have to get used to the steps. It will be better if you have a metro line plant in english, because every signal is typed in cyrillic alphabet.;5;January 27, 2015
Central metro stations;I wanted to do this tour before I arrived in Moscow as it was highly recommended by friends at home. However I found navigating the moscow metro really difficult. Signage is nearly non existent in some areas and when it is there is in an unfamiliar alphabet. I chose a guided tour which was well worth while as there are several line changes needed to get to all the stations in good way. The people I chose were tour-moscow@mail.ru. My guide was a young student with very good English and well informed about the stations visited. A one and half hour tour cost me 2250 roubles, good value I thought. I should have done the Kremlin tour with them but ran out of time.;4;January 27, 2015
Beautifull!!!;The most beautiful metro I have seen so far! But beware and take it not on peak hours as then is no fun at all - to much crowd then!!! At best for weekends.;5;January 25, 2015
Best in the world;Moscow metro is truly one of the best in the world. Here's a tip: spend a day or half a day in Moscow metro! Just get there and move from station to station. There are several lines (color coded on the map) and you can transition from place to place. Every station is unique and beautiful. It's like a huge museum. They are all historic and have meanings. I promise, if you sound a day in Moscow metro, you will learn a lot about history of Russia! You will meet interesting people too. They won't talk to you, but you can just watch them. Another tip: don't go there during rush hours, which in Moscow are 8-10 am and 6-7 pm.;4;January 24, 2015
Station of the subway station was the deepest I've ever seen.;The Moscow Metro is one of the largest , oldest and most beautiful underground world.People's Artist of the subway stations of the country shows.Station of the subway station was the deepest I've ever seen.;4;January 20, 2015
This metro rocks;Easy to figure out,fast, efficient, frequent and very affordable. It is of course often crowded, hello, it's public transportation, and it makes for fun people watching.  Look for the couples who take advantage of the very long escalator rides to kiss.  One will be riding backwards!  Don't expect much help from the other commuters, they're busy and not really interested. However if you are desperate enough to make your case real to someone, they will help.  Sometimes.  And of course some of the stations are incredible.;5;January 19, 2015
Moscow Metro: One single word to describe: "WOW";The Moscow Metro is probably one of the best in the world and also having some of the deepest stations in the world. At some stations, the time you would take to reach the next station after boarding the metro would be much shorter than the actual time you would be spending in the escalator to reach the underground station from surface level.Each line is having a unique color denoted to it and the same color will either be on the doors of the metro trains or painted in a continuous line under the window of each car. Each train comes in gaps of approximately 3 minutes thus reducing the total wait time even if you have just missed the connection. The impressive part from a tourist's perspective is the architecture and the exquisite style of each station which is sometimes mind-boggling. Each single ride costs 40 Roubles irrespective of the number of transfers you make.  Alternatively you can purchase a multiple ride tickets or unlimited ride tickets with fixed validity.Coming to the less-impressive part, the metro trains are very noisy, crowded during peak hours and almost all the metro trains are very very old unlike the modern metro trains that you would see in Europe. It is advisable to carry a Bilingual Moscow metro map with the stations names in English as well as Russian since it is extremely hard for a foreign tourist to read the stations  unless otherwise he uses numbers to count the number of stops after which he has to get down or board another train for transfer.If you are running short of time to explore the metro on your own, you can also take the guided metro tour starting from 1000 Roubles with visit to some of the architecturally magnificent stations which are a museum in itself.;5;January 19, 2015
Crowded, but beautiful;It was really crowded when we entered the metro. But what makes you amazed is the regulated system, trains coming on time, people being polite , not pushing you hard to get on or off. They wait for others to go out and then they enter. And of course the famous underground palaces of some stations I was lucky to see. Beautiful architecture, expensive materials, art and decorations. All these makes you impressed deeply. All what you can say is WOW!;5;January 12, 2015
Whoa!!;It's impressive. But the number of lines and the different floors in some stations were mind boggling. But after a few trips, you get used to it. I visited Moscow during the holidays and so I did not experience the dreaded peak hours.;5;January 11, 2015
Brilliant;The Moscow metro really is one of the highlights from my time in Moscow. Most of the stations are beautifully decorated and there is a great variety in the style of the stations. The trains come within 3 mins, so you never have to wait long between trains. I recommend talking the metro and getting off at different stops just to admire their architecture and the art (mosaics, frescos etc.)The metro is also cheap, about 30roubles for a ticket, regardless how far you travel.;5;January 10, 2015
historical and spectacular;If you are visiting moscow as a tourist do not omit a visit in the metro. It is historical with sculptures, mosaics, emblems and volume impressive architecture. The most close to the ground station is 5m underneath, the deepest is really down. Visit almost all stations of the brown circular line, each one of them has something to show and to make pictures;4;January 9, 2015
One of the best metro's in the world!;Although this is my home city, I still think our metro is one of the best. It is really beautiful, diverse, like a museum itself. Even moskovites don't know sometimes how stations look like as there's a lot of them now, and even more being in construction for opening soon. The only minus is that it becomes REALLY crowded in peak hours (morning and evening on business days), so be sure to enter it in the middle of the day if you want your trip to be more enjoyable.But bear in mind that not all stations are currently equipped with wheelchair access and are disabled-friendly. So check out the metro scheme to see which stations offer this option, should you need to use it.And it's better to buy ticket for 10-60 rides for cheaper prices per ride, if you want to explore the city in full, during several days. Keep in mind that tickets are basically made of thick paper, so might soak in rainy or snowy weather. Keep it somewhere safe.;4;January 9, 2015
Amazingly interesting;Your probably will end up taking the metro to get around the city.  Take time to look at the stations.  Some are dull but other stations are fascinating.  Some of them have socialist/communist themes that make them a historical artifact.  Learn the basic letters of the Cyrillic alphabet, and don't be intimidated by the language. You also can take a subway tour which focuses on the interesting stations.  Safe and fast--a lot better than many other cities.;5;January 8, 2015
super fast and super beautiful station;The best metro in the all word so safe ( not like in paris !!!!)  you can take it at night and girls alone ! nowhere you can do that in the word ! at midnight  girls can go alone ! incredible in this word! and all this soviet union stations ! with incredible beauty !  you feel like in a museum !  dont miss it just missing some english signs ! but it is fun !;5;January 6, 2015
Fast;Although noisy and almost always busy it is fast, efficient and interesting.  The people travelling here and there make an interesting study of readers - game players and bored commuters.As ever the scenery is good!!;4;January 5, 2015
Architecture of Excellence;The Brown Line of the Moscow Subway is truly a museum by itself.  This line circles the central city of Moscow.  From the marble pillars and flooring, to the chandeliers and paintings in the ceiling.  It is hard to believe that this is a subway.  Each painting tells a story and depicts a historic event.  The subway has NO LITTER, people do NOT 'hang around', they merely catch the train and go.  I traveled the subway at all hours of day and night and had no apprehension about doing so.  People on the train were reserved, but would help you, if you asked a question.  What a tribute to the Russian people; a must, to see and experience!Jon Lefeber;5;January 4, 2015
fast drive;It was great expirience to drive with this metro. Every metro station have some historical simbols and there can you see how Russian respect their culture and history. You can get a very fast drive from one place to enother for a very cheap price. Also I learned russian through this metro stations.;5;January 4, 2015
Best way to get about.;We had a 3 day break and the metro system was the bedt wsy to get about as the roads are very congested. Not only is it cheap but very clean. Each station is different. Amazing architecture. Well worth a look. Make sure you know which stop as it is all in russian.;5;January 2, 2015
Best way to have a trip;The metro is cheap (40 rubles for ride, or 1400 rubbles for 70 rides) It takes you to any place in moscow, has a great structure and It's not very crowded. + the sculptures and paints around it.;4;January 2, 2015
Beautiful;Every metro station is different, great workmanship and design, work of art, especially, the one on the ring, the oldest ones. One should go there if not for transportation, just like in the museum of the Soviet history;5;January 1, 2015
One of the most beautiful metro!,;We initially went on a guided tour of the Moscow Metro to see one of the most beautiful metro. Some of the stations had beautiful statues and ceilings. We thought we were in a museum!! Took a lot of pictures. We changed stations and then went on a walking tour of the Kremlin and central Moscow.Subsequently, we went on the Moscow Metro on our own. We felt very safe. The trains were not very crowded and the fare is very cheap. 2 rubles for one way ticket. A Very Important piece of Advice. everything is written in Russian alphabet. Please make sure to get an English translation of the subway map. It can be found in any travel book on Russia or the cruise ship. Without them, we would have had a tough time. Not many people speak English,;5;December 29, 2014
Challenging;Since I don`t speak any russian, and neither did my friends that were with me, it was a bit challenging in the beginning... But only on the first day, the other ones were way easier!I downloaded a biligual metro map which I kept shifting between the russian and the english version, and it was extremely useful! Don`t miss the platform with the copper statues! Don`t leave it without polishing a bit more the dogs` noses! They say it is to give luck, who knows... just in case!;5;December 26, 2014
Brilliant but sketchy;Since Roman characters are simply unavailable and most Russians speak no other languages, making your way around the Metro is a real adventure. I found myself missing stops and then trying to find people to guide me to my correct destination. Fortunately, I encountered only kind people. However, I was warned by my local friends that I should be careful of local authorities because legacy behaviour still exists where you'll be asked to pay for "help fees". The art and architecture of the Metro is what is so stunning and worth the risk of a rough ride. It is impressive and worth respect to see such craftsmanship shared among the population, giving them appreciation for their country and their ability each and every day when they go to work.;5;December 22, 2014
Not easy to move there if you don't know Russian;Even if the subway stations are very particular, along with the old fashion decoration, to reach my destination was a nightmare. The panels were written in Cyrillic only. I had a turistic guide with the names of the stations tranlated in English, but the Cyrillic names did not match exactly.The trains are old and slightly dirty. On the train, you cannot read where you are going. Where the train arrives to a station, most of the times the Cyrillic name of the station is not readable in no place. A Russian recorded voice will say the name. On some trains it does not.If you ask for help to the cashier, no one speaks English and worst no one even tries to understand your request or show some little desire to help.;2;December 20, 2014
Unbelievable!;I had heard stories about the beautiful interiors of the Moscow subway stations, but nothing prepared me for the reality. We were taken to many, many stations by our private tour guide who very efficiently had us on and off trains with no problems, despite the volume of people traffic on the subway. We covered maybe 15 stations, and he provided all the history and architectural information we could possibly absorb. The Moscow subway is essential viewing, with its beautiful lighting, murals, and sculpture.;5;December 18, 2014
Amazing stations;The Moscow metro is something you need to visit. Like London escalators bring you very deep under ground, where you find very nice and beautiful historical stations. The trains are old and needs to be renewed urgently. Also make sure you know the Cyrillic names, as nothing signed in English (besides exit). A map with English/Cyrillic names is your best friend here.;3;December 18, 2014
Must see !!;For the price of a ticket (less than € 0,50) you can spend as much time underground as you want and see the palaces of the people that Stalin build.  I made a tour of about 2 hours with a colleague and we were amazed. Smiling solders, happy farmers, Lenin and flag and that in mosaic, marble, stained glass windows and regular paintings. If you have some time left in Moscow, make you way underground !;5;December 18, 2014
Very unique;The Moscow metro is very unique, every station is filled with new character that describes a bit of history about the city. For instance, "Ploshad' Revolucii" is  where the Red Square is describes a lot about the Wold War 2 and almost tells a story of what went on during that time. Just beautiful and definitely worth taking a ride :);4;December 16, 2014
Beautiful architecture;You should visit the metro! The train is crappy, but the stations are very beautiful. I could recommend Mayakovskaya, Dostoyevskaya, Kiyevskaya and Prospekt Mira.;4;December 16, 2014
Wow;One of Moscow's highlights and probably the best metros in the world!  Every station looks like a grand historical museum or mini mansion, and my god they are all so so so deep.Everything's in Russian so great for practising your cyrillic alphabet down here!;5;December 14, 2014
Very stylish Metro;Moscow's showcase metro stations ate the most decorous in the world. Styles range from High Stalinist to ballroom glitz - amazing! Moscow's metro is one of the proudest achievements of the Soviet era. It is very efficient and the best way to get around in Moscow.;5;December 12, 2014
Fast trains, Gorgeous stations!;Pay one price and ride all you want. Wander around, take pictures, watch millions of people going about their business. Stay away during morning and evening rush, and beware of pickpocketing.;5;December 12, 2014
Moscow Metro;We were I'm Moscow on holiday and on the metro every day. WOW !!!! it goes like a bull-it. The speed is amazing. The building's are works of art. The escalators are also amazing just going for 100 metres on some of them. You get around from A to B very easy. The only thing i did find is that every thing is in Russian not much english. So count your stops and look ahead so you know where to get off.;5;December 11, 2014
Beautifull;Every station is another story.Amazing, mosaic, murals, paintings, chandeliers...it is very clean and good organized even it is really big.Something worth seeing.;5;December 11, 2014
Simply the best;The Moscow metro is gorgeous, you won't find anything like these beautifully decorated stations anywhere in Europe! It is also efficient: the trains run every 1-2 minutes, maximum 5 (late at night). The metro net covers the entire city, and it is easy to find your way even without speaking a word of Russian as all the maps in the metro are both in Russian and in English + there are several smartphone apps for Moscow Metro in English (highly recommend as the applications calculate the fastest routes from one station to another and give you a pretty precise time to get there). Another advantage of the Moscow metro is that it is clean. The downsides are: it is pretty packed in rush hours (from 7:00 to 10:00 in the morning and from 5:00 to 8:00 in the evening). Sometimes there people jams when you switch from one line to another. Note: you can use a metro card to take a city bus, a tram, or a trolley-bus.;5;December 6, 2014
Old but very useful;Moscow taffic is crazy, and metro is a solution in many cases: it is very cheap and fast, trains goes sometimes every minute! The main problem is that it was build in 50ies 9at least, in the center) and has no lifts (as far as I saw) for elderly people, disabled or small kids. Purschase ticket for 20 trips, it is MUCH cheaper than for one trip (which is also only 70 cents).;4;December 6, 2014
Would be dumb to miss this;Never thought I would review a metro system however you have to use this if you are in Russia. Not only is it a crazy easy system to use but they have some of the most beautiful stations I've seen!! Do a little bit of research before to find the ones and you're set for a bit of station hopping. We spent around an hour going from different stations purely just to see the design. It's worth the exploration and it's hardly anything to ride the metro. 2 rubles for the entire thing;5;December 5, 2014
Fast, punctual, not expensive;For everyone who is comming to visit Moscow, the Metro (subway) is a place where they have to go. Besides beautiful and grandiose stations, the Mtero is very clean and safe. Trains are heading in every direction at every 55-65 seconds, so you cant wait any longer that that. It is the fastest and the easiest way to get around Moscow.;4;December 4, 2014
koolest metro ?;the teams and workmanship at some stations is amazing.  we bought a day pass to visit some just to see them.also the best way to get around Moscow's crazy traffic;4;December 3, 2014
Fast and furious;A lot of people in hot morning hours but a lot of trains coming each 1-2 minutes. Beautiful stations in the center and several new high tech ones end-stations;5;December 3, 2014
Not in rush hour;Very beautiful, but very crowdy! Only early morning or late evening are available for comfortable sightseeing;4;December 3, 2014
Most efficient way for commuting in Moscow;During working week Moscow metro fastest and reliable way of getting around the city. Sometimes it could be little bit longer then by car, but ability to predict timing and be on time – priceless. Number of stations constructed in old USSR time really good looking. Ploschad Revolutsii, Mayakovskaya, Kievskaya, etc. – definitely needs to be seen.Word of caution – try to avoid pick hours as it could be really crowded.   Also I would not recommend to be there after 11pm – specifically on stations outside of circle line.;5;December 3, 2014
Must for visiting but not the best to use;It's strange to write about Moscow Metro for a man born in Moscow. I can't imagine my life without it and so can't be objective and recognize it as well. You can find a lot of facts about Metro in Moscow in the Internet in many languages and the only I could add is a subjective opinion of 55 years old Muscovite. I use it every day usually in a hurry and so don't see all its beauty and attraction. In rush hours when I use it it seems too crowdy, may be dirty (but better then in Paris;-), not so easy to find the way if you don't know Russian... But everyone visiting Moscow for the first time MUST visit old stations just to look at them. May be between 10 and 11 P.M. it would be better... And you will see... beautiful underground palaces built not for elite but for usual people... and helped usual people to survive during bombing in WW II...It's the MUST for visiting.;5;December 3, 2014
Moscow metro is a fantastic experience and must see #3 in Moscow;I'm a seldom user of Moscow metro and each time I'm there I appreciate three main things: it is the most convenient way of getting to places in Moscow in time; the stations are so beautifully decorated that one must have a separate tour to get a feel of what Soviet heritage is; it's becoming more and more friendly for wi-fi and transcripted stations names. Even if your preferrence is 5* hotels and high-end restaurants, the Bolshoi and Tretyakiv Gallery a short (guided is better) trip into the underground will make your impressions of Moscow complete.;5;December 3, 2014
Beautiful, but uncomfortable.;There are many really beautiful stations. But if you go somewhere with big suitcase, then it will be difficult, because you can't find escalator in every station. So, be careful.;3;December 3, 2014
Moscow Metro;Metro is my favourite means of transport in Moscow. You can calculate your way from one place to another very accurately as the intervals between the trains are from 40 sec to1,5 minutes.You had better not travel by metro during rush-hours as it is really overcrowded then.All the stations have their own design, many of them are real masterpieces of architecture and design! And these words are are not only old stations but the modern ones too. On some lines you can use free Wi-Fi and soon it will be available on all the lines.Maybe the only disadvantage is that not all stations can be used by disabled: in the Soviet Union nobody thought about such people unfortunately. But modern stations have facilities for disabled.;5;December 3, 2014
I recommend the Mayakovskiy station;You have to be the kind of visitor who can appreciate the beauty and the history marks of the architecture and design of public places to truly enjoy this. I certainly did though!;4;December 2, 2014
Best in the World;Impressive how 20 million people are moved around Moscow every day coming and going at all hours. Exceptionally clean. People are working at all hours to keep the dirt and winter grit cleaned up. You move at regular intervals of 1.5 to 3 minutes on every line. The cost is cheap. The decorations and design of every station is museum quality. Seldom see graffiti. People respect what they have in this amazing asset. Oh that we could replicate it every where.;5;December 2, 2014
Fast and efficient;The metro is by far the best way to travel around Moscow. It is fast, efficient and cheap. You can buy single tickets or if you are staying for a few days, why not get one of the 10 or 20 trip passes. The signs in the metro are mostly in Russian, but the lines are clearly marked and it is quite easy to navigate. If you can, try to avoid the rush hours.Remember to take the time to admire the stations, some of them are truly magnifient works of art.;5;December 1, 2014
much easier to navigate than expected;Not all of the stations are beautiful but many of them are and certainly worth a visit. So much easier to use than we originally thought, clean, cheap, fast and definately the way to get around.;4;November 30, 2014
Very Good Value.  Not to be Missed;Travelling on the Metro is inexpensive and visiting several different stations is recommended.  The stations, built in the 1930s, are each a work of art.  They are highly decorated with sculptures, mosaics and elaborate decoration.  The lights are made of rock crystal in some of the stations.    The system seems to run very well with trains running frequently.  Not much English signage, so take careful note of place names.  Many locals do speak some English, and you can probably find some one to point you in the right direction if unsure.;4;November 29, 2014
Must visit;The signs are in russian however the visit is amazing. Each station is different from another but the main ones are just a state of art.;5;November 25, 2014
Moscow metro;The best way to get around the city! Very fast, clean with a train every 2 minutes. The stations are beautiful to look at and at just 160 rubles for a 5 journey ticket you can't go wrong!;5;November 23, 2014
Effective Metro - Beautiful Stations;Very very effective metro but be aware, if you Russian is lacking, make sure you study the maps very well. Very little English signage. Peak time a nice experience to use the metro...;5;November 19, 2014
As a Photography enthusiast, you'll be in heaven;I could stay on the Moscow Metro for hours without coming up for light! It is simply beautiful, and the stations I would recommend visiting are; Kievskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Elektricheskaya, Arbat, Ploshchad Revolutsii, Okhotny Ryad, Komsomolskaya and Park Pobedy. ps. For those complaining about a lack of English, it is simply unacceptable. It would take a matter of hours to learn the cyrillic alphabet so that you could navigate your way around the metro and wider city without needing help from an English speaker. Stop expecting everything to be handed to you. In Russia they won't pander to you because you're English. If you attempt to speak Russian, they will appreciate your efforts and be much more friendly.;5;November 19, 2014
Amazing beautiful stations.  Difficult to get around if you have no Russian.;Huge, busy, noisy, beautiful,  confusing, efficient, fast, crowded. But an experience not to miss. The stations are incredible, some with soviet era frescoes,  chandeliers that would not be out of place in a palace. The trains arrive every 1- 3 minutes and zoom around at great speed. At first it appears confusing but after a while it is easy. Don't be put off, as traffic is so bad in Moscow, it is just not worth it.Amazing.;4;November 19, 2014
Have a map and pay attention to directions.;The stations in Moscow can be very interesting for the architecture and the history behind them, but communication is hard if you don't understand Russian, as most of the staff speaks no English and is not really willing to help. The signs are generally in Russian - and written with the Cyrillic alphabet, which also won't make things easier. I strongly recommend that you keep a map of the subway station and take a good previous look at how to get to where you want. Also have in mind that not every station has lifts so carrying luggage throughout endless aisles and stairs can be stressful and exhausting.;3;November 18, 2014
quick and efficient, but only for Russians;really good, but it would be much better if they had signs and hints in english. some stations don't have any sign at all so you really need to keep up to recognise where to go off.announcements all in russian.;3;November 17, 2014
Pristene subway;The best areas are in the central part of the system. You may wish to take a guided tour although its not really necessary if you do some reading up first. The subway has no graffiti and was quite safe. The escalators themselves are a sight to see--very steep. People are polite and helpful should you need directions--ask the young people who usually speak some English. Forget about trying to read any signage! The mosaics, tile work and bronze statues that adornn the ceilings and walls are a sight to behold. All the art work tells a story, usually historic in nature. Take you time and look at the bronze statues that have been polished bright by the superstitious Russians who rub them for luck as they quickly walk by! Take a camera!;5;November 15, 2014
Amazing history in Russian Metro;I toured three of the metro stations Baumanskaya, Ploschad Revolutsii (Red Square) and Arbatskaya as part of Moscow Private Day tours and loved the history around the stations. My guide told me about the habit of touching or rubbing some of the statues in the Red Square station by students for luck before exams of for financial luck and how the statues are arranged from revolutionaries through scientists, artists and athletes. The stations were also used for hospitals during the war and one particular marine who stationed his ship nearby and got to dance with Queen Elizabeth before she was coronated.Most stations have interesting architecture and history, including Arbatskaya where a large frame on the wall has nothing in it but used to house a picture of Lenin before it was removed during the revolution.The metro is pretty easy to use despite the Cyrillic alphabetic, just remember what color line you need and download a bilingual map online from various websites before you tackle it.;4;November 15, 2014
Exquisite Architecture;The Metro is the most extravagant and ornate detailed subway in the world. From the marble floors and statues, to the stained glass and chandeliers. For the price it is a must see considering the price of most museums. You must also be told about Metro. 2 that lies beneath Metro. A bomb shelter constructed during WWW II...;5;November 14, 2014
Amazing diversity of styles and beautifully clean;We toured he best stations on the metro as part of an organised tour, which made life easy. We were amazed by the size and opulence of the stations we saw, each one being different and all having clear messages about the Soviet Union to be passed on to the daily users.  I rated this tour as one of the highlights of my time in Moscow.;5;November 13, 2014
Well worth the trip;We were told that this was one of the "must do" trips in Moscow.  Luckily for us it was included in a night tour offered by our cruise company.  Not sure we would have tackled it by ourselves.  After going down the longest, steepest escalator we arrived at one of the four stations we would visit.  Being evening the trains were not crowded for our trips to them.  And yes, they are a must see.  Marble floors, walls, bronze statues, mosaic art work etc.  Well worth the trip.;4;November 13, 2014
A short tour with a wheelchair through the Metro;Don't Go! was what we were told in advance...  but we had a VERY helpful tour manager with us who helped by taking the collapsed wheelchair (only 14 kg) down the frighteningly steep escalator at Ploschad Revolushnyii;  and from then on the tour we did could be done keeping to the same level platforms until exiting at Smolenskaya station and level footpaths past a McDonalds (toilets are few in Moscow centre - and for the price of a coffee you get one of the most convenient conveniences around). to the Arbat street.  An interesting place to souvenir shop and where the local Russians like to go on a Sunday- unless they are busy getting married - then the go to Sparrow hills near  the University with its spectacular view down to the Kremlin and Olympic stadium..   Now follows the set of amazing places well worth the visit.  five of the TOP TEN metro stations feature on the list.   For people with a disability who will stay at the Marriott Courtyard, a better way of entering the system is at the TVSERSKAYA station on Pushkin square,  as this gives access after two tsops via line Nr 2 (green tiles and a walkway link from TEATRALNAYA  to the following gret stations:    1  PLOSCHAD REVOLUTSI with its amazing bronze statues-  on to 2  KURSKAYA (mosaics) on the the circle line number 5 (red tiles on the walls) - and the sequence of stations 3  KOMSOMOLSKAYA Chandeliers) -  4  NOVOSLOBODSKAYA (Stained glass columns) - BELORUSSKAYA. - and from the latter there is the (Green tile)  Nr 2 line link back to Revolution square or keep on the Line 5 Circle to 5  KIEVSKAYA (more mosaics) which is next to the RAIL link to both the main airports);5;November 12, 2014
Moscaw metro ist die shonste in der Wald));Moscow metro especially old stations are a piece of art and it is really worth it to spend some time just to see different stations if you appear to be in Moscow  some time.;5;November 12, 2014
Beautiful stations.;Some of the metro stations look like the inside of an exquisite hotel! The lonely planet guide gives a good tour of the metro.  It goes from Komsomolskaya, Prospekt Mira, Novoslobodskaya, Belorusskaya, Mayakovskaya, Teatralnaya, Ploshchad Revolyutsii, Arbatskaya, Kievskaya, Park Pobedy.The good thing is the metro is open from 5,30 - 1am! So its good to go in the evening when it is a bit quieter or the other attractions are closed and its not quite bed time!You can just buy one ticket and it gets you from start to finish (and back again if you want).It is like nothing I've seen before!;5;November 11, 2014
Best metro anywhere;Beautiful stations.   Super efficient trains.   not much waiting between trains.  Good connections.  We used the metro to go everywhere in Moscow.    Easy to use and the network is extensive.  The older stations are works of art!   Wonderful with chandeliers!!  A real part of history.   They handle amazing volumes of people really efficiently.    We cannot speak or read russian and had not problem.;5;November 11, 2014
Reliable service, cheap, beautiful stations;As a Londoner I was interested to see how the Moscow Metro compared to the London Tube. Well,...........see my title! It took a bit of time to work out the system and a knowledge of the Cyrillic script is helpful. But this has got to be the only way of getting around a city which is big (unless you are a good walker!);5;November 11, 2014
Never posted about a metro before;I must admit I would never normally think to post about a metro but this one is so different. So many of the stations are almost Cathedral/Museum like, they are beautiful. And as for the practicality it is clean, really easy to get around the city and I doubt I every waited more than a minute for a train. Travel is so cheap as well. The only one I can really compare with for price is London and can say it is so cheap to travel in Moscow and you pay per ride, not for how far you go.;5;November 11, 2014
Work of art;I did not expect that in Moscow I could be so much impressed by the metro (subway stations). Most of them are like a work of art, with so much history of this country, impressive sculptures, stunning chandeliers, the highest quality materials of which the entire interior was made. A day in Moscow metro is really worth of seeing.;5;November 10, 2014
On of the best underground transportation system;Not only because I am living in Moscow but compaing to other cities I've seen Moscow metro is really interesting to see. Some stations are architectural masterpieces. Most of beautiful stations are in the centre and not advised to visit it at rush hours (8-10 and 17-19).;5;November 7, 2014
Such a beautiful metro system;The Moscow metro is amazing, each station that I visited was a work of art. Gets you from A to B with great sights along the way. Could use some more English to help the millions of tourists that visit each year, but is a glorious sight.;4;November 6, 2014
So easy to use;Do not be afraid to venture out on the Metro.  Everyone is so willing to help you find your destination you have nothing to fear and the stations must be seen to believe.  You think you are in a home or museum.And--to top our experience off--the moment I entered the Metro car a young Russian gentleman got up to offer me his seat.;5;November 6, 2014
nice;Moscow metro is like a museum. Several stations are beautiful and in different styles. I suggest you just take the train and hop off in all stations. Worth it!;5;November 4, 2014
the amasing Moscow metro;It's very nice and interesting to see. There are some stations which are masterpieces. My favourites are Ploshyad Revolutsii, Kievskaya, Mayakovskaya, Slavyanskiy bulvar, Trubnaya, Sretensky bulvar.Just not advised to visit it at rush hours (8-10 and 17-19).If you want to feel the Moscow life I advise you to go and see this beauty:);5;November 4, 2014
Hidden Gems;Central stations of Moscow metro were bulit and decorated in Stalin's era (1930s thru 1950s), so they host an impressive display of grand imperial style art: statues, paintings, mosaics and carvings. All stations of the Ring Line (Koltsevaya Linia) are definitely worth a visit for a true amateur of totalitarian art. Don't miss the secret gem of Kiyevskaya ring line station: a mosaic depicting "the fight for the Soviets in the Ukraine in 1919". It shows a man, using a notebook and a cellphone, with cavalry and steamers in the background.;5;November 4, 2014
Super effective and super beautiful;There is no metro more splendid than this one, stations in the ring are just breathtaking - huge mosaics and more more more ...;5;November 4, 2014
Actually pretty easy to work out...;The Moscow metro is incredibly simple to work out, many of the signs are in English and once you get the hang of it, you'll find that the price (40 rubles for one way) is excellent value for how clean and fast the metro is. One tip would be to get a five-way trip as it lasts for several days and costs 160 rubles so you end up saving a fair bit of money in the long run.;5;November 3, 2014
Loved It!;W O W ! Thank you Stalin!The Metro stations are a sight to behold. Personally, I've ridden in a few subways and metros around the world and I feel that the Moscow Metro system is second to none. My wife and I spent an entire day riding the rails in Moscow and was treated to a stunning visual experience at every station. At peak hours the frequency is shortened and you will not find Muscovites scrambling, pushing or rushing to catch their commute or connector. Yes, it's full of people. Yes, the transfer corridors, platforms, channels, escalators (some very very long) are teeming with people but we didn't feel it!Be alert and aware of your personal belongings like every other major cities with their underground and people movers. Riding the metro in Moscow is a thrilling experience, so don't leave Moscow without trying it!Highly recommended!;5;November 3, 2014
Great thing to do in the evening;Visit museums and galleries at day and metro in the late evening (less people and better time management for you). Ticket costs 40rubles and I would recommend to go see all interesting station at once, its quick and you save some money. The best way is to take the brown circle line as most of the pretty stations are set there. Those include: Kievskaya, Beloruskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Komsolomskaya and Mayakovskaya stations. There are many pictures with historical events but all the information is in russian. Well worth visiting! Its like free interactive gallery with occasional music experience (lot of street artists play in metro). Peoplewatching is also great but make sure you dont stare much, you will get punched in your face.;5;November 3, 2014
Moscow  Metro;Visiting  the  Moscow  Metro  is a  must,  when  in  the  city,  I  have  been  there  twice  and  saw    5  different  stations  each  time,  With  the  lovely  art  works,  pictures  of  early  days  in  Russia, and  lovely  chandlers,  just  so  much   and  very  good  workmanship  in  all  the  displayed   models  of  early  life  in  Russia,;5;November 2, 2014
A must do;Just buy a purchase pass and bounce around on the metro system which is fantastic.The stations are brillant,the trams old,new and all very popular.They can go to all the sights and are really efficient.;5;November 2, 2014
Beautiful Stations & look out for the museum train cars;Spend a day hoping on and off random metro stops to admire the beautiful themed artwork in each station.  Don;t have time for that?  Hope on the circle line and at least catch those stations.   I do not remember which line it is but there are many themed metro trains one in particular is the art train which changes displays.  they display copies of paintings exhibited in one of the museums in moscow.  it is called the Aquarelle Train (watercolor train).  Also catch Reading Train, Poetry Train, and Retro Train.  the Reading train has themed cars (children's books, international books etc).;5;October 30, 2014
A day under ground;Taking a trip through central Metro stations, especially in winter on a cold rainy day will prove a winner. Beautifully designed and poorly designed, mighty granite standing tall and a bit tarnished older stations - all and many are worth the attention of a traveller, as it is a great landmark not to be missed.Travelling between 11 and 3 is best to not get caught in the pedestrian rush and traffic. Every station has easy maps and diagrams.;5;October 29, 2014
Easy to use and beautiful architecture;We used the Moscow Metro every day we were in Moscow. The lines are colour coded so its pretty easy to find the line you are looking for, and we were given a tip early on to count stations or remember the first few symbols of the station you wanted to make it easier. Both tips were very handy. We bought a ticket of with 11 trips on it, simple to use and efficient. Did a tour of metro stations to look at the incredible architecture, well worth doing. The stations are all different and quite amazing.Felt very safe on the metro, we took it on the way back at night to our hotel after an ice hockey game, no issues for us.Its a very efficient system taking you within close proximity of the sights, its cheap and easy to use.;5;October 28, 2014
Best metro service in the world;Can't believe this isn't ranked higher. Iv been in Moscow for 5 days and this has been the absolute highlight of my trip. The stations are immaculately kept and are absolutely stunning. Stalin really knew what he was talking about. I googled the best stations to stop at - and went to about 10 of them. A fantastic way to spend a few hours.One piece of advice. Get a map that has the names in Russian and English - that way you can compare symbols to figure out where on earth you are!!;5;October 28, 2014
Sending flowers to Moscow;www.moscowflowerdelivery.comI have used this company on several occasions while trying to find a reliable flower service in Moscow. I must say that their service and quality of the flowers is THE BEST! All my orders always arrive at the times I've requested, I always receive email notifications during processing and delivery and I also receive a picture of the product when it's finally delivered. My girlfriend has also commented that the arrangements are always so beautiful!;5;October 26, 2014
Moscow Metro;It is very safe place. Police is all around. Stations are all different so take a photo of each of them. I bought a green ticket - price is 0,70 Eur. and is for one entry for metro, and for bus when you get out from metro. You must know chirilic letter or take translated map in the hotel to navigate inside of metro.;5;October 25, 2014
Metro Station Hopping;The metro stations of Moscow are so artistic. When we hopped from station to station we felt almost like entering museums one after another. Real amazing sights. I like Line 5 the ring line and stations like Mayakovskaya on Line 2 and Komsomolskaya on Line 1 are worth visiting.;5;October 25, 2014
Popular for Pickpockets!!;Interesting to visit. Unusually ornate and interesting metro stops. Unfortunately, it is also very popular with the professional thieves of Moscow. These pickpockets can defeat your best efforts and totally screw up a trip;4;October 23, 2014
Cleaner than BART :);So I could have given this 5 but rated 4 because the names of the stations are all in Russian and so had to make sure we know where we were going or else we would be lost.  I absolutely love the fact that it's so convenient from our hotel that we stayed at to wherever we wanted to go and even to our office, it was just down the road.;4;October 23, 2014
A must see/do in Moscow;There is no easier, faster, or cheaper way of traveling in Moscow than on the Metro. It is the archetypal example of Soviet public works: grand, detailed, and patriotic, and packed with serious looking people. And they are so deep under ground that I can only assume they were to double as bomb shelters. The lines are color coded, and a man's voice gives announcements when the trains are moving towards the city center, and a woman's voice speaks when the trains are moving away, so even if you cannot read Russian, you will not be hopelessly lost. If you are a tourist traveling within the first or second rings of the city, which will be the case for the vast majority of tourists -- take the metro. Additionally, there is a digital timer on each platform that tells you how long it has been since the previous train has left the station, which softens the anxiety of not knowing if you've just missed a train.;5;October 22, 2014
Like travelling in a museum;This was a beautiful architectural and historical experience.  Sadly, all signs and route maps are in Russian in the cyrillic alphabet so very hard to find your way around.  But friendly staff, while they couldn't speak English, were happy to help out with a lot of pointing and hand gesturing.  Definitely a must see in Moscow!;4;October 21, 2014
Beautiful;a real treat. We had a guide who talked about each of the stations but you can simply do it by yourself for the price of one metro ticket. Take your time to appreciate the beauty of each station which are decorated in patriotic Art Deco style. Each station is different and the detail is exquisite. A must in Moscow.;5;October 21, 2014
Busy like New York,Paris Mumbai;Tour in Moscow was awesome ,I had only 2 days in Russia Moscow,it was difficulty for language but sometimes founds signs .how bg people's are and is developed as well;5;October 20, 2014
Tributes to Past Events;Part of Moscow holiday was a tour of the Metro with Academservice. Alexie explained everything about how these stations were made to celebrate victories or share wealth with the common people.So much to see, steep escalators and beautiful paintings and sculptures.Trains every minute, 9m people use it daily. What a public transport system and so cheap. Put Melbourne Aust to shame.;5;October 20, 2014
Arguably the best way of getting around Moscow;The hing to do is to buy a carnet of tickets, either by no. Of days or no. Of journeys as queues can be long and english is not spoken much so you'll have to do it Ruski Styl.Not only is the metro a good way of getting around the city, but the metro stations themselves are cathedrals in their own right. Many built under Stalin, are fabulous confections, with chandeliers, gold plate and  massive murals.Some of the newer stations are uninteresting.Plan your journey and brush up on the station names in cyrillic;4;October 19, 2014
Metro Navigation;I agree with all that has been said about he Moscow Metro. Fast and very busy with some beautiful stations. My tip - before you go download 2 metro maps, one in Cyrillic and one in normal Latin script. Decide which station you want to go to on the Latin script, then find that station on Cyriic script map and count stations in between. That way you will get to where you want easily.;4;October 18, 2014
We survived the Metro;We used the Metro today for the first time, it was exciting and we got to where we wanted to be.Please check which lines to travel because it is all in Russian and only English is the way out sign.It was fun and we enjoyed it.;5;October 17, 2014
Wonderful displays of art;Spent a couple of hours one evening armed with a map, which I had marked with recommended stations to visit from a "Lonely Planet" guidebook.  Purchasing a ticket from the machine was straightforward (English is available) which cost 40 roubles (approx AUD 1.25).  Whilst all signs in the station are in Russian,  I was able to communicate with a smile to a station attendant and point to the station I wished to visit on my map, who kindly pointed to the correct platform and I was on my way!  Initially counting the stops so I knew when to alight, I quickly learnt to understand the visual signage on the platform, and the colour coded lines.  Each station was a delight to experience, with such a diverse range of works on each.  Trains stopped every few minutes, so there was no need to rush, or have a long wait once I had taken a number of photos and enjoyed the displays at each.  Best to experience after the peak hour crowds (I started at 7.30pm and it was very pleasant).  Don't be daunted about doing it on your own, it was one of the highlights of my stay in Moscow.;4;October 17, 2014
Stunning. All are works of art;We did a tour of Moscow using the metro and the best part was seeing the metro stations. It really shows a difference to Paris, London and New York.You just need to make sure to have a map and bear in mind, there are several exits to each stop. You may come out of the wrong exit. Also remember, the signs are in Russian so it's helps to recognise the stops that you want!;5;October 15, 2014
Old but efficient, some stations are very beautiful;Metro Stations are worth visiting, there are many nice stations along the circle (brown line), and you can take a round trip, drop at each station to take some pictures before hopping onto the next train. (the next train come in around 2-3 mins)I still cannot figure out why they charge 40 ruble while it indicate 28 ruble for single ride.Most stations are very deep, and the escalator ride is about 2 mins or more.;5;October 15, 2014
Exceptional System and great stations;one of the best metro systems around and each station is unique in its architecture. I downloaded a map on my iPhone so found navigating quite easy.;5;October 13, 2014
Moscow Metro;Amazing, even if you are not using the metro to get around, take a trip to a few stations to see the interior design, puts London's underground to shame.  Be aware of gypsy pickpocket, one of our party had his wallet lifted and he didn't know anything about it, our tour guide spotted it.;5;October 13, 2014
Best Way to Get Around in Moscow;Once you get to Moscow you really want to see things. Unless you enjoy traffic jams and seeing all of the polite, but totally crazy drivers in Moscow, the metro is your best friend.  Moscow drivers are nuts and the roads are worse, so enjoy the metro as the sane Muscovites do.  Find a map and plan your routes carefully, NO ENGLISH or any language signs - only Russian.  This system is beautiful and an attraction all on its own, unlike most American systems.  IF you get lost, look for a young Russian, many of them (about 50%) are taking English in school and will be happy to practice their English on you - and be very helpful.;4;October 12, 2014
Excellent system, what a metro should be!;Except for not being able to read Cyrillic, that being my fault, and the older trains only having the maps in Cyrillic chracters, the Moscow Metro system is a joy.  It is easy to navigate, efficient, and strangely calm.  I've used the NYC Subway and the DC Metro extensively, and I was surprised to say that the Moscow Metro is the best one I have utilized.  The newer trains alleviate a foreigner's problem if they don't speak the language as the maps are in Russian and English and the stop names come up in both languages as well.  The platforms are very clean and they do not have that acrid odor that the NYC subway system has, I was quite surprised.  I did not see anyone trying to smoke on the platforms either, I like used to see i DC.  It was a very nice surprise.  It was also strange to see people getting up to give their seats to older women and women in general.  Politeness isn't dead in some ways in Moscow.  I chose to stand almost all the time, so I could better observe the behavior on the Metro as well.People on the Moscow Metro were also remarkably well-behaved as well.  There was the usual of everyone being on their phones, reading and listening to music, playing games, but what was missing was the loud and obnoxious behavior usually seen on the trains in other cities.  I rode the metro many, many times and various times of the day and night and saw very little in the way of poor behavior, except for the occasional group of drunk people, but even they weren't being overly loud either.Something else tourists might find strange, possibly daunting, is that some of the Metro stations are FAR underground.  You have to navigate up and down these HUGE escalators.  If you are lucky, at least one of them is working.  I couldn't imagine going up Butyrskaya station's stairs if both escalators were broken!All in all, I'd say the Moscow Metro was excellent and would be almost perfect if it weren't for one thing:1) It closes at 2AM.  Not good for those who like to stay out late, like me.;4;October 10, 2014
Beautiful Architecture;It is as if one is walking into a museum. The service is pretty efficient. The trains are a bit old and make a lot of noise. The gates slam quite hard, so be careful with your luggage. For those who do not understand Cyrillic, please be sure to visit their official website (English version - http://engl.mosmetro.ru/pages/page_0.php?id_page=2) and get a fair understanding of the map. Frankly, it is fairly easy to get by. I have had some of my best experiences in Moscow Metro..;5;October 8, 2014
Suggestions on stations and times;The "metro" is a must in a visit to Moscow, but, obviously, not every single station is worth the visit. These are, for me, the best ones:On the "ring" line (stations on the brown line):-Komsomolskaya, probably the most impresive (Комсомольская)-Novoslobodskaya (Новослободская)-Kievskaya (Киевская)Inside the ring:-Ploshchad Revolyutsii (dark blue line, Площадь Революции)-Trubnaya and Dostoyevskaya (new stations, great desing, both are on the light green line, Трубная, Достоевская)-Mayakovskaya (dark green line, Маяковская)Very important: Avoid "rush hours" (from 7 to 9, and from 18 to 20). The good time for a "quiet" visit starts at 21-22.;5;October 7, 2014
The Lifeline of a METROpolis;I stay in Moscow as an expat and have been travelling to and fro between home and work on the metro for the past year or so. Extremely well connected, well maintained and user friendly (in case you read cyrillic) metro is literally the lifeline of Moscow. Whether you are a traveller or a local it can save you tremendous amount of time compared to driving a car around. The stations like Kursyaka, Kievskaya, Park Pobedy, Ploshad Revolyuski, Oktyabarskaya etc are architectural marvels and worth a visit.;5;October 6, 2014
You need to master cyrillic;Functional, fast, clean, organized, nice (although not all stations are museum-type) but you need to master cyrillic alphabet! Apart from that, it's the best way to get to know Moscow, since the walking distances are huge!;5;October 1, 2014
An interesting step back in architectural time;We visited only 3 different stations but were amazed at the beauty in the design of those three, both down where the metro trains were and above where you got your tickets.  If you go for no other reason than to check out the design from different eras, it is worth it.  We were there in the middle of the day so it wasn't too crowded.;5;September 27, 2014
Don't get lost!;As part of our tourist itinerary, our 2 guides, one who travelled with us from abroad and one local  brought our group of 20 to try the Moscow Subway.  They chose two stations said to be more iconic. The first leg of journey was fine as we boarded the train as a group and were settled in the same compartment. We were instructed to alight at the next stop and the incredible happened when we got off. It could be the local guide walked too fast in the lead position or some members were too zealous to take pictures.  After a few twists and turns, we landed on another platform and then to our horror, we lost three members. We panicked and so did the guides because the three could have gone anywhere in the maze of metro lines.  Thanks to modern technology and the three soon found that they had gone on another train without us (due to mixed instructions from the two guides to start with) and so they got off at the next station, photographed the station name and whatsapped the guides where they were. It still took sometime before the guides fetched them and reunited them with us. So my advice is if you go alone on the tub system, unless you understand and read their language or have done your detailed homework and are well conversant with the different lines and your destinations,  think twice before you leap.  If you were with a tour group, tag along with the herd closely and don't get lost.  Back to the Moscow metro, I can see that they have many lines built over the years with pretty good coverage and the frequency of trains seemed high.  The train we took was clean, efficient and updated.  The metro platforms of the stations we went were also immaculately clean and well maintained.  One has very chic design with beautiful arches and motifs on the ceiling and the other was lined with  plenty of bronze human statutes and nice pendant lights.  Two statutes in particular with a dog and a rooster seems to bring luck and the bronze shined because of rubbing of passers-by. Indeed, I witness some locals  touching their mascots when they walked pass. If not shocked by the lost and found, I think the Moscow Metro is as good if not better than its many other counterparts in the rest of the world.;4;September 27, 2014
Fast, frequent and nice;Moscow metro is very old. The net is huge, all parts of town are well connected. The trains are very very fast and I have never waited more than 2 minutes. There are murals and mosaics on the walls in some stations, sculptures and other art pieces on every huge station. Like some underground museum. This is the cheapest way to go around the city and explore;5;September 24, 2014
Functional and safe metro;We had a day (06/09) to fill before catching a train eastwards, so we decided to walk around to Arbatskaya Metro station and purchased a couple of tickets which had ten journeys on them.  We then made our way to the Park Kultury stop, which is the nearest for Gorky Park.  Having walked through the park, we found Frunzenskaya station (which had one of the deepest escalators I had ever been on) and caught the Metro back to our starting point.  Both of these journeys required a change of line and the tunnels between the two were easy to navigate.  There also appeared to be a great number of security and railway staff, so we felt really safe. Anyone used to the London Underground will have few problems here.;4;September 24, 2014
A Nightmare!;Buying the metro ticket from a machine was the easy bit!  40rub (70p). A woman in the ticket office ignored us, then shook her head when we pointed at an underground map. That was at Kitay Gorod Metro.ALL signs were in Russian, NO English.  No announments by male or female voices, as we were told they denote direction trains are travelling.  The pink line on signs, was purple on the map!We were saved by an English speaking Russian, who took us to Arbat Metro which was lovely. We also saw a station with lovely statues, dont know the name.  It was a really stressful experience & my daughter uses the London underground daily, so is familiar with changes etc.I later saw a guided tour of the undergrounds advertised from 4-6pm, ask for details from the 'Red Buses' conductor, as never found the tourist office!My advice is DON'T attempt this on your own, if you are hoping to hop on and off trains, to see the best stations.  Sadly we failed our mission :O(;2;September 23, 2014
Metro is the saver for Moscow;If you can read russian alphabets, it is very easy to use metro in moscow. Cheap and it is better then to use taxis in moscow, because of the heavy traffic. There are many stations, some are new, some are old and clean, and some are old and non clean. The most Luxury station that I have ride from it was at at Dzelavoy Center (a very new station). The most difficult was changing line from Okotny Riyad to Ploshat Revolutioni. Otherwise simple. The most unclean station I found Kurskaya. I bought 20 rides ticket for approximately 540 rub (14 $). It is very safe and more advisable using Metro in Moscow.;5;September 22, 2014
Underground cathedrals;I visited a lot of the stations and they are all different styles and design and VAST in size. I've not seen anything like this! They are so beautiful. Some are full of soviet symbols.;5;September 21, 2014
Fascinating and functional;Best historic metro we have experienced. It is cheap and covers all you need to see of Moscow. It is efficient, frequency of trains is such that it would be exceptional to walk from one end of a platform to the other without a train arriving. It is clean and functional although signs are written in Cyrillic a little familiarisation and following the colour codes of train lines make it easy to use. It is clean and loved it when an 80 year old man told a lout to sit up straight and not take up two spaces.The best is too keep your eyes open when using the stations in the central part. A lot are individual architectural gems. Next time I would look for a guided tour. Minor niggle is that one or two of the older lines can be noisy which on a longer journey can be irksome.;5;September 20, 2014
Beautilful - book a metro tour;I went on a metro tour with a tour guide and the stations are amazing.  They vary from what can only be described as 'palace like' complete with chandeliers, to communist tributes with amazing themes and statues throughout.  I would recommend booking a tour for this as they will know the best stations to go to and will be able to explain the meanings and histories of the stations.;5;September 18, 2014
You need to know the Russian Alphabet;This is truly one of the most amazing experiences of a visit to Moscow. It is excellent value and very efficient, not to mention stunningly beautiful BUT to use it as a means of transport you really need to know the Russian Alphabet in order to read the destinations and know which direction to travel in. On the whole, the young people we asked were extremely patient and courteous and gave us an enormous amount of help but those of our generation or older were much less helpful and mainly completely ignored our requests for help.  I had learned some of the alphabet but not enough to feel confident. It doesn't help that the station names appear only fleetingly as you draw into the station, leaving it mainly to guesswork as to where you are.;3;September 17, 2014
beautifull;Each station is beautiful in its way, it is amazing. Big candelabres, white walls, a lot of people all day along. The transportation is good, travel a few hours between stations, you will be surprised each time.;5;September 12, 2014
Moscow Metro stations;Since we lived in Moscow for almost 3 years taking the metro was a daily rush hour experience. If you don't have to be on the metro at rush hour(s), avoid this experience if possible. The metro can transport you almost anywhere in Moscow but make sure you know your exit. You can end up a kilometre or more from your destination. Just recently there are more English/Russian signs for exits and lines on the floor of the metro in front of the stairways/escalators. But if it's crowded you'll never see them. Make sure you know your stops, best to count the no. Because some of the older metros don't show the stops inside and you have to rely on hearing the Russian only announcement. Know your line no. And colour of the line but rely more on the no. Because sometimes purple can look like pink; brown can look like red; light blue can look like dark blue. The metro is a cheap transportation choice. One ticket  is about $1.00. You could ride the metro all day on one ticket if you never exit the subway system. So if you're touring the stations it's a cheap tour. Check out the internet for the most beautiful and interesting stations and lay out a route for yourself. I took an organized tour once but it's not worth the money. You can barely hear the guide due to the roaring trains on both sides of the platform. Do a bit of research and enjoy.;5;September 10, 2014
This is not only part of transport infrastructure, it's architectural monument;Must see when in Moscow. It is not only efficient mean if getting through Moscow traffic jams. It really a masterpiece of engineering, architecture, sculpture, art.....Crowdy during the day, suggest visiting probably after 9 pm or later. Worth to see most of the stations within circle line and circle line itself.;5;September 10, 2014
Art for the people;The subway stations are amazing, They were build by the communists for the people.. Get yourself a guide who'll take you to the best and most beautiful stations..Remember though that taking a photograph of any police or militray personnel will get your memory card wiped.Make sure to friendly motion them to step back (smile, point camera, make gestures like you are Moses is parting the Red Sea) if they are in the frame.;5;September 10, 2014
Amazing;Definitely take a trip on the Moscow Metro. Very safe and unbelievably beautiful. Longest escalator in Europe. Stand on the right to allow commuters to pass by quickly whilst you take in the breath-taking view as you descend into the depths! Stunning murals and statues await you at every station, and it is hard to believe that this is actually just a Metro!!! Easy to follow maps apart from it all being in Russian, as you would expect! Well worth a trip.;5;September 10, 2014
Wonder of the world;Majakovsky station - on the avatar - is a miracle! There are a dozen of stations for adoration with your own taste (IMHO, Taganskaja, Chertanovskaja, Komsomolskaja, Ploshchad' Revolyutsii, ... etc) . As a transport it is efficient as water supply system. The best option to be in time at any place in Moscow. Enjoy :-));5;September 10, 2014
Beautiful Moscow Metro;Moscow Metro is one of the world's best tourist attractions! Does it at all look like a metro railway station? Honestly no! Who would imagine that magnificent palace-like substructures were built some hundreds of feet below the road level  traversing the length and breadth of Moscow and accommodating millions of passengers to travel as they wished  by sub-way trains zooming past at high speeds through the mighty depths of the City - quite unknown to the surface-rider! The planning, the foresight, the architecture, the engineering, the cleanliness, the extra-ordinary maintenance and the quite user-friendly utilities provided underground are all truly praiseworthy! The deep Metro tunnels were said to have afforded protection and safety to people who took shelter therein during the World War II...;5;September 8, 2014
Best metro system in the world;Never seen a metro subway system that is functional and an architectural masterpiece. Every station is uniquely beautiful.;5;September 6, 2014
Cheap, convenient and very efficient;The Moscow Metro is the easiest and most convenient way to get around Moscow by public transport. The colour-coded maps are everywhere and very easy to follow. Trains arrive every two minutes. I would recommend familiarising yourself with the Russian alphabet to make sure you are travelling in the right direction to the station you want. Some information is also given in the Roman alphabet, but not all. If you make a mistake it is easy to rectify if you know which station you want. There are some really beautiful stations which are sights in their own right, but the speed, efficiency and convenience of the system is its big plus, especially as the roads seem to be congested all day. If you don't read Russian, it is best to buy tickets from the ticket office. Although the cashiers only speak Russian they are helpful and good at understanding signs.;5;September 3, 2014
must look;Excellent,most beautiful in the world.My favourite stations Mayakovskaya,Kiyevskaya,Komsomolskaya,Arbatskaya;5;September 2, 2014
It was amazing that the metro can be design in such fascinating way in such a depth!;I have been living in Moscow for the pass 6 years! Besides the museum at a very affordable price yet interesting enough to enlighten us with beautiful knowledge, their public transports are one of those I like the most! Using the same 'bilet' u can travel in their bus, train, trolley bus n metro! Each station of the metro will have their own story to tell! Some with statues where upon touching it shall bring us luck n wealth!! Amazing and wonderful!;4;September 2, 2014
South if Moscow;these metro station are on south side of Moscow . this area is beautiful and look very Calm and and a peaceful place . when i go to Moscow i often visit this area .;5;September 1, 2014
Place you must see;The best metro in the world as beauty as safe as historical. Do compared to others, it is unconditional and unusal.;5;September 1, 2014
Моско́вский метрополите́н, Moskovsky metropoliten;Superb rapid transit system. 194 stations, 325 Km. Opens 5:00 am to 01:00 am. Amazing gallery of art. See pictures.;4;September 1, 2014
Amazing Underworld;You see so much marble or at least looking like, you see so many people of all kinds. You hear the loud noise of every minute a train in each direction. You go down very, very steep esclators. You can go to each end of Moscow and see Russia whereever.;5;September 1, 2014
Moscow metro system;I got the chance to spend a few days in Moscow, but one thing that gets mentioned is the metro system and décor. I will say that it is worth doing and the network is pretty organized. So if you want to do a city tour, base it around the metro. There are plenty of reviews on here, but one thing to aim for if you don't know where to start is the dogs nose.If you search for it you will know what I mean and its the best way to start you day.One word of warning is the Taxi's . I have taken three taxi's and so far all of them have been not what I expected (I am being polite) they over , over over charge. They tell you its a set fair, but the set fair is very high. They tell you its a 40 min minimum and the games go on. Im saying this as you may be tempted to take a taxi at the end of the metro or to get to a metro. This is what spoiled my trip and made me feel very bad about Moscow. Unless you have arranged it over the phone and agreed a price, my advice would be NEVER take a cab off the street. I was with Russians from another city and they could not believe the audacity.;3;September 1, 2014
one of the most beautiful places Ihave visited;Runs like clockwork a train every 10 seconds. But the most amazing things ar the stations , with beautiful roof painting, statuesetc to commerate  various event in Soviet history;4;September 1, 2014
An amazing experience;We went on the metro as part of an evening excursion from our river cruise ship Andrei Rublov. It certainly is a must do journey to see the fantastic architecture in the stations. Wonderful stained glass panels, bronze sculptures, lights and wall panels. We left the metro near the GUM departmental store, a visual feast at night when the whole facade is covered by lights.;5;August 31, 2014
Moscow's metro is state of the art !;If you plan a visit to Moscow, the capital of Russia, make sure you take a tour of its metro, especially the older central Moscow stations built between 1935 and 1965. The stations and the metro system, which the ordinary Moscovites are so used to, are a state of the art and bring around a feeling of being in a museum of classical architecture with all the beautiful marble and granite, sculptures, statues, intricate lighting, bronze or brass huge chandeliers, mozaics, wall and ceiling decorations,clean and comfortable trains, benches on the platforms, etc., and a great history of a nation that built this incredible transportation system for the use of general public. Of course, in the rush hours it's overcrowded with passengers moving in quite an orderly manner, but why complain ? That is the whole idea - to transport as many people as needed. I would say that this is the most impressive metro system in the world !;5;August 29, 2014
Wow;We had a Moscow greeter who showed us wonderful stations, can't believe the opulence of some of the stations, I will upload the photos on my return home but just wow.;5;August 28, 2014
Moscow Metro;In my opinion you have not been to Moscow if you have not been in Moscow iconic Metro (Subway/Underground). I am not talking about the train itself or the transport/transportation but the whole aspect of Moscow underground.Moscow underground is iconic, stunning and in itself a Museum.Whilst it might be unpleasant travelling on Moscow Metro (especially during the rush hour or in winter) the whole aspect of the underground is an architectural marvel.Absolute Marvel and it's a joy for me whenever i am in Moscow to spend some free time on weekends travelling through different stations, enjoying 'free artistic work of arts'  and taking photos.;5;August 28, 2014
Super packed;The metro is way over crowded. You packed in like sardines. They need more trains, or lines. Moscow is a big city as well, so as a traveler you will most likely see it for yourself.;1;August 25, 2014
Fantastic design but bad for English navigation;Each metro station has it's own and unique design, a lot of people everywhere, beautiful and fast and efficiency trains all the time. The only bad thing I can say about it is that there are not English signs at all and very hard for English speaking people for navigation as the local staff and most people do not speak English.;3;August 21, 2014
Absolutely stunning;Heard a lot about the Moscow Metro, and it was all true the architecture was amazing, bit tricky to use the metro as obviously can't pronounce any the stations so have to count the stations that you want to get on & off at!;5;August 19, 2014
Tired and out of date vagoons on Moscow Metro;We were really amazed and shocked after experienced how old and tired the Metro vagoons were on Moscow's reputable Metro lines.Even It was more shocky after having being told how magnificent the Moscow Metro on all tourist magazines with no exception.Infact almost all Metro vagoons on all lines are to be renewed top urgently,because all of them are dirty with smelly and ugly exterior and interior,run out of date and even with rusty floor and rail bars,there is no airconditioning inside the vagoons at all.Besides they go on a tremendous and unsafety speed on all times!..We were praying while on it inorder to come to next stop before any accident was occured.This is really a big shame of one of World's leader marked country.;1;August 19, 2014
WOW;Stupendous & extremely lavish.  Even if you do not wish to travel on the metro, you still need to go & see it.  It is a wonderful piece of ingenuity & so very clean.;5;August 16, 2014
moscow metro stations;i had know idea what a magnificent experience i would be (although i have heard and read so much about it before), until i actually did it.and the only way to really "enjoy" it is to make the metro tour a special event. i have used some of the stations before i toured them and because i was always "on the run" to get somewhere i did not pay enough attention to it.it so happened that i got to some of the stations during rush hour, and you know what, it did not bother at all.  actually, it was adding to the experience. we did the tour of about eight stops on our own.  lots of the stations are along the "ring line" so its easy to find your way, and even for the others its not a problem.while we were there, we met two beautiful young russian girls holding a sign, and when approaching them they told us that they are studying art and they do these tours.  all you need is to reserve it two weeks in advance.  they were nice enough to tip us what is our best route to take and gave us some information about the station we were at.  all other information can be easily found in any moscow guide book or googled.all  you need is one single metro ticket and you are set.if its too much to do all the stations at one go the metro tkts are so cheap, go again.don't leave moscow without it.;5;August 16, 2014
Moscow metro;Most part of Moscow metro are underground. Only the new peripheral lines are above the ground level. Metro is the backbone of transportation system in the city. It is quite rushy during rush hours with no place at all. During summer it is hot in metro as there is no AC. Some of the stations are beautifully designed as revolution square, Arbatskaya etc. Take a guided tour of metro so that you get to know the history of the architecture.;3;August 14, 2014
Workers' Palaces;Because the Soviet Regime deemed the subway stations to be 'workers' palaces', they didn't save money in decorating them beautifully. Each station is greater than the last! I especially like arbatskaia, but the most curious one is Ploshad Revolutsie, which is lined by dozens of bronze statues representing the russian people. Look for the dog whose nose everyone touches (it is said to bring good luck), for the cock (whose beak, if touched, brings money) and for the pregnant lady (brings luck to pregnant women and to those who want to become pregnant).;4;August 12, 2014
Underground Palaces;From cultural, historical and artistic point of view the following stations are recommended as the must see in Moscow metro:Brown (Circle) line: Novoslobodskaya, Prospekt Mira, Komsomolskaya, Taganskaya, Paveletskaya, Kievskaya, Krasnopresnenskaya, Belorusskaya.From Belorusskaya there is a change to the Green line where Mayakovskaya is the must see (don't miss the massive monument just in the middle of the change passage). At Mayakovskaya, try to choose the new exit (escalators go down) and go up to the entrance to enjoy the beautiful ceiling mosaic. Dark Blue line (change from Kievskaya circle station): Kievskaya, Park Pobedy (up left), Ploshad' Revoliutsii, Elektrozavodskaya (up right).Arbatskaya (light blue line) can be visited on your way to the Red Square.Moscow metro is safe (it's well policed and it will be hard to find drunk people due to the law that prohibits the consumption of alcohol in public places) and crowded. The best times to visit are earlier morning on the week-ends or any day after 9pm. Following the itinerary above may take you up to 2 hours.The Metro starts work at 06.00 a.m., but stations open at 05.30-05.40 a.m. At 01.00 a.m. the entrances close and passengers must complete their transfers. Last train leaves also at 01.03 a.m. You will need to buy only 1 ticket to complete this journey. The price of the ticket doesn't depend on the time/distance spent underground.;5;August 10, 2014
Moscow metro;This is a wonderful. Way to see Moscow city and the stations have beautiful works of art. The best time is off peak, we went after lunch. It is a busy transport system but when everyone is on their train you get a chance to sit down and look at the wonderful mosaics, paintings, statues and stain glass windows.It is safe to be there as it is patrolled by police, but like any where be careful of pick pockets!The train lines are colour coded, and the ticket machine converts to English. It is very cheap, about 40 rbs. We took some terrific photographs but do not take the police or the locals, they do not like it!;4;August 10, 2014
More than a metro;Some of the stations are art galleries with different architects and sculptures and statues.  One of best but cheap spot to visit.;5;August 10, 2014
Excellent & relieable service, but dated trains;During any stay in Moscow, the cheapest & most efficient way to get around is with the Moscow metrow. The ticket price is the same no matter where your headed on the huge line. Some of the stations in themselves are art galleries such as lubyanka and park popedy, where you can see some soviet propaganda. The only real difficulty in using the Moscow metrow is the fact that all the stations names are listed only in Cyrillic, which can be difficult. The trains themselves also look like they need some updating, they look as though they've been around since the 80s.;4;August 7, 2014
Very beautiful and historical though heavily overcrowded even in not so busy hours;Moscow Metro is known all over the world for it's beautiful huge stations with pure art installations, bareliefs, sculptures and arcitectural masterpieces. Definately a place you must see but only late in the evenings when it's not so crowded, after 9-10 p.m. during the week.Grab your camera and make some beautiful pictures, see the historical heritage, feel the weight of underground and the ghosts of the past.Don't point your camera to security guards though and don't dare to put out a tripod beacuse you may have some problems if you do. (Officially photographing and video recording are prohibited unless you have a special permission from administration of Moscow Metro, though I personally didn't have any problems with making photos without tripod or flash).Overall Moscow Metro is an interesting place to visit once, but far not the best to use it everyday on your road to work or study. Every year it gets more overcrowded and safety of the pasengers sometimes is not as good as it stated. p.s. Be aware of crazy old ladies with huge bags when you stay at the edge of the platform, they wont hesitate to push or drop you down.;3;August 7, 2014
From Altufevo to Prazhskaya is too far at first sight only));Metro is the best transport in Moscow. It's the fastest and inexpensive way to get around within the city. Each station of the Moscow Metro is an architectural monument.;4;August 7, 2014
Just like home;OK - I was a London commuter for over 20 years so the Moscow Metro does feel a bit like home.  Even the Aussies with us said it was a bit like the Northern line.  But the efficiency of this system is unbelievable.And while I am fond of the decoration of the Northern line platforms at Charing Cross they do not compare to the decor on the circle line of Moscows Metro.  Buy your tickets and get on those trains.;5;August 6, 2014
Not a metro but an art gallery;Moscow Metro is very huge and there are 11-12 different lines. I think the biggest problem is the letters. Nothing is in Latin alphabet. Thanks to my husband WHO can ready russian. this way we never used taxi in Moscow but only metro. Each station is unique and like an art gallery with mosaics and chandeliers. the only problem for us was that there is no elevator or escalator in most of the stations and this made our job so hard with a stroller.;5;August 6, 2014
You can enjoy riding Kol'tsevaya line all day long (kidding);Muscovites love Moscow Metro because you avoid traffic jams by using it. Travelers may see it differently, especially when looking closer at the walls of the stations. Each station is a piece of art. If you want to see a fontain, you go to Rimskaya, if you want to rub a lucky dog's nose, you take a train to Ploschad' Revolutsii, when you want to meet somebody on Kitay-Gorod, you make sure you meet at Nogin's monument (Muscovites call it "Nogah") because it's oh so easy to get confused and lost there waiting for somebody (two lines has the same named stations and a passage between, where Nogah's situated). Only crazy nomads are advised to take trips to bedroom suburbs like Chertanovo, Bibirevo, Novokosino and alike - you won't find there anything but troubles... But you may try. At Prazhskaya you will be impressed by the ammount of granite and metal used for the decoration... A massive pain you know where is the absence of public toilets underground. So, don't get too obsessed with Moscow Metro beauties, you may need to urgently go up and seek for a rest room.;5;August 5, 2014
efficient to use but need to know where you're going!;Moscow metro is the way to get around and it is clean, efficient, fast and cheap. You can buy bulk tickets (30/60). We bought one ticket for 60 journies. There were 5 of us and there were no problems with us using the same ticket. When I messed it up they renewed the ticket at no charge.  Very few people speak English (don't believe what you read in the guide books!) but sign language, smiles and please and thankyou in Russian go along way.  All the signs on the stations are in cyrillic so memorize your destination, take your time, trains run every two minutes. It helps to practice the alphabet a bit and makes a big difference. On the trains the signs are in English script too.  Some stations are well worth visiting, all stations are clean, there are very few beggars (we didn't see any underground) and we never felt threatened at all. It is THE way to get around in Moscow.;5;August 5, 2014
Very nice;Although only a handful of stations are elaborately decorated, they are pieces of art. Very impressive. I did not take the tour although it was available, but I had limited time.;4;August 5, 2014
A showcase of architecture in Moscow.;The metro is truly a living chronicle to architecture in Moscow from the 1930's till present.For the price of a single ticket one can jump on and off the trains that ply the labyrinth of tunnels deep under the city of Moscow. The trains run every few minutes so there is no wasting time waiting for the next train. The only thing I would recommend is a pair of ear plugs as some of the trains are very noisy.;5;August 4, 2014
View some amazing architecture for under a pound!;We did a whistle-stop tour of a few metro stations with our Russian Tour Guide but a few of us asked which other stations are worth checking out and we headed to those ones too.If you've used metros or subways in other countries, then you should be able to navigate your way around without too much difficulty - yes everything is in Cyrillic, but you can match the characters on the map to the ones on the stations.The architecture in the stations is amazing and rivals some of the above-ground buildings Russia has to offer and you can see the obvious thought that has gone into each particular station - e.g. each station has its own unique type of light fitting. You can also visit the world's longest escalator (3 mins dead from bottom to top) - all this for the price of a single metro journey of 60 roubles, or 65 pence - what else can you do for that price nowadays?!;5;August 3, 2014
Good way to get around the city;If you've only experienced the metro in North America, this is a very pleasant surprise.  It is clean, it is spacious, high ceilings it looks nothing like the dungeons in the USA.   The only negative is all signs were in Russian only when I was there, so it may be a little difficult if you don't read Russian.;5;July 29, 2014
Moscow down under;There are underground stations in Moscow which are significantly different to any I have come across in other cities. That difference is in their architecture which is well worth seeing. Go on an organised tour which will take you to those of note. Can be done in a couple of hours and has the benefit of taking a train back to the nearest station to your hotel afterwards. If you do your homework and research the stations of note it is possible to do it under your own steam all for the price of a ticket at the cost of around 50pence.;4;July 28, 2014
moscow metro;Though the deepest metro station of the world is in st petersburg,the moscow metro is not second to any,given the grandior and architectural ellegance.The oil paintings on the wall,the sculpures on all nooks and corners and the chandilliers.wow !! wortha visit definitely.The people are smiling and king.One yound lad offered me his seat and stood up.go there in safety and enjoy;5;July 28, 2014
Yes, different but just metro. No english letters...;It's different and artistic, but just metro. Yes i like it. But dangerous, because too old and neglected. And there is no English or latin letters. How it will be touristic???;4;July 27, 2014
Excellent experience;Moscow metro is really grandious. If you are visiting Moscow for few days you have to take ride and see at least few most Popular stations. This is really piece of art.;5;July 25, 2014
Take a guided tour when you first arrive;The Moscow Subway stations are spectacular.  An early tour will reassure you that they are a safe, easy to use and convenient way to get around day and night.;5;July 24, 2014
The Art of a Metro System;Very unusual metro/subway. A work of art. Very clean, beautiful art/statuary, runs on time, worth a visit, should not be missed when in Moscow.;5;July 22, 2014
Very clean, fast, and efficient... with art thrown in;The stations are works of art, with sculptures, and murals that are well maintained. The place is immaculate. If there was graffiti on a wall or subway car, it's cleaned off immediately. Impressive;5;July 21, 2014
A real eye opener;We were introduced to the Metro by our guide who gave us very useful information on how to buy tickets; hold up the number of fingers matching the number of journeys you want to make to the people in the booth. Simple.She then took us on a short tour through 3 or 4 stations including a stop at Ploshchad Revolyutsii to see the statue of the dog with the shiny nose. It is believed to bring good luck to pat the dog's nose and we watched as people went out of their way to do so. Over the following days of our stay we became regular users including one afternoon spent doing a grand tour of the more notable stations taking time at each one to look around and read some of the background history. By the end of our trip we were regular visitors to the dog and patted his nose like a local.Big hint - make sure that you have a map showing the Cyrillic name for each station along with your own language translation as within station signs are in general only in Cyrillic. Great fun, full of history and a real surprise compared with other capital city metro system.;4;July 20, 2014
Moscow Metro;If you go to Moscow and do not travel in the Metro then you have not seen Moscow.  It is really very Grand.  Each and every station is unique.  The Metro was created at the time of Stalin.  Even the air vents have designs on them.  Never seen such a long and fast escalator.  It is always crowded so to see the metro as tourist avoid the rush hour.  Luckily we had a guide who was explainating things to us.  Its a pleasure to travel in the Metro.;5;July 18, 2014
Magnificent!;The stations, the elevators, the complete system boast of the soviet era. Such wonderful stations with sculptures on the walls, helpful staff, automatic vending machines in abundance make everything so smooth and easy!Once in Moscow, you just can't move without using this magnificent means of travel.The only thing that bothered me was all the signage being only in Cyrillic alphabet. Though I know Russian language pretty well but this can be a big problem for someone who doesn't know this language.Big tip to a foreigner in the red land:At least learn the Cyrillic characters by heart before visiting this beautiful country.Highly impressed.;5;July 17, 2014
The most beautiful metro stations I´ve ever seen.;This is a huge subway. There are more than 180 stations. There are a lot of lines. It´s old. Most of this was built in Stalin period. So, I think they have to show people that their work was creating a wealth country. One of the best ways was the subway. So, the trains, now, are a little bit old, but the stations, the main ones, are wonderful. They worths the visit, even you will not take the subway, but you should. However, be aware that everything is written in cyrillic alphabet, only a few words in english. I got lost myself in the subway, for instance, and nobody speak english, in that time, to help me. But people was kind to help me in russian !;5;July 17, 2014
Must do while in Moscow..!!;The Moscow metro is one attraction not to be missed while in the city. Unlike other metros across the world which are geared towards functionality, Moscow metro was one of the grandest projects of the Soviet Union, and boy, does it show.Each station is a unique work of art in itself. I must have visited and passed through ~8 stations and was blown away at every one of them. Plus the escalators that lead to stations have to be the longest ones i've ever been on.Do visit the metro and take your time to savour it, It is very much worth it.;5;July 15, 2014
Gives a new meaning to underground art;Take a look at the metro stations – deep underground. You will NOT find graffiti. Instead you will find beautiful, museum-quality artwork. One station has beautiful paintings, another has intricate mosaics, and a third has full-size sculptures. It was worth making the trip down below. If you go, wait until after rush hour when it is quieter.;5;July 13, 2014
Another must see;Riding the metro in Moscow is a must see for a number of reasons.  First, it is relatively inexpensive trip and gives you a whole different perspective of Moscow you do not get from the sidewalk.  Second, each station is unique (go to several different ones!) with beautiful art decorations.  I started my journey by going down the longest escalator in Europe.  This escalator was in the station Park Pobedy.  Park Pobedy also has the deepest subway platform in Europe.  I took several photos as I descended the escalator and I found others doing the same thing.  Going down that escalator was definitely an experience in itself.  This whole trip was part of a guided group (I was part of a Viking Cruise) so we learned about the art at this station and at several other stations where we stopped.  I was also surprised how clean the stations were kept.  The trains seem to come at fairly regular intervals, which also surprised me.  The Moscow Metro is worth the experience.  Try to go down the longest escalator as those who have traveled to Moscow will likely ask if you had experience this.  You don't want to say you missed out.;5;July 12, 2014
Tremendous;We had a guided tour by the wonderful Violetta  - a real Russian babushka.  We visited several stations that were all different and absolutely superb. Sometimes it was difficult to know where to look first.  In hid sigh I would have preferred to just travel the various lines and alight and check each station on my own.  Certainly a must for every traveller to Moscow.;5;July 8, 2014
Lenin's dream of a metro;The different ages of the metro - 1930s to 1990s - have generated a variety of architectural features in the stations both above and below ground. It makes a fascinating difference to the more usual rather functional treatment of Metro infrastructure. And the Metro works very well, too..;4;July 8, 2014
Interesting;My guided tour took me through the metro and explained all the decorations. How Stalin himself approved much of it, how it was to be used as a bomb shelter, etc. very interesting. The metro is very clean, safe and efficient.;5;July 7, 2014
The best way to get around!;With all the traffic in the city the metro is the perfect solution.  It is inexpensive,  fast and has some beautiful interiors.   Note most stations are not handicap accessible or stroller friendly.;5;July 6, 2014
A wonderful self guided tour;This is a very low cost tour if you do it yourself. A ticket costs only 40 Roubles and you can see all the stations if you like.The best ones are on the circle line. Start at one of them and travel in a circle hopping off at each station to take photos. If you are in one of the front carriages, you will be able to preview each station as they come into view. Also get on the blue line (3) and look at some of the stations on this line.;5;July 6, 2014
The Best Way to Get Around Moscow;The Moscow Metro runs trains every 90 seconds, 24/7, at every stop. They have crews standing by to fix any problems. It is extensive, with more than a dozen lines going all over the city. Each  station has unique architecture and all are beautiful. The Metro is its own attraction - besides being THE best way to get around the city. Oh, and the fee is very cheap!;5;July 4, 2014
It's good, efficient, but no latin alphabet;When first seeing the map, I thought it was complicated, but then realized the concept was genius. There are many lines but the interconnections are just by the red circle. The train came between 1.5-2 minutes, very efficient. The challenge is you need to read Cyrillic letters to make it easy to travel. One should just understand the final destination and the interconnecting red line stations to transit. If you can read Cyrillic, there is not even a need to know which lines to interconnect by knowing the last station like the logic in Singapore/Bangkok/Manila/Hongkong MRT. Just know the destinations for transit of red circle line and final destination, and look at the board hanging above the walk way. When you have not reached the destination, don't go out to the exit. If you walk towards exit before the final destination, it means you are walking the wrong way.For non-Cyrillic readers, just know the name of transit red line stations and final destinations. Plenty of non-English speaking police, so just ask them the name of next station you intend to go. Price for one way ticket is RUR 40, and 5 trips RUR 180. Can be bought at vending machines (English available) or ticket counter (may not speak English).There is also option for multiple transport (bus, metro, electric car)  for RUR 50, but each type of transport can only be taken once in total not more than 90 minutes. Trains are combination of old and new ones. New ones even have free WIFI. If you don't read Cyrillic, you need to concentrate on the voice of station in each arrival or just count stations by the map. For people traveling with heavy baggage, need to understand that there may be numerous stairways to negotiate with and the escalators are steep as usually Metro stations are deep underground.;4;July 3, 2014
Efficient;The stations are lovely, but you won't be in them long. The train are efficient and usually come in under 5 minutes, 2 minutes was normal. The train range from old to new. Some have English signs; others no. Stations do no have English. There is a small map posted in every station on a small standing post. You should learn the Cyrillic alphabet and know how many stops you will be going. This will help you immensely. Changes at stations can take some time. Often you go ALL the way up to street level to come back down. Stations are VERY deep underground.;4;July 2, 2014
Fast but crowdy;If you do not carry any heavy luggage, definitively use the metro. Fastest possible way for moving around this megapolis. You'll never wait for more than 5mins for the train. If you do not like to be really close to the people either do not fo there or avoid rush hours.;4;July 2, 2014
Blimey - do not miss this.;We only popped down because we were told we should. I wasn't exactly excited frankly as I regularly frequent our own lovely underground. But. But. It was amazing! Like an underground palace (with trains) Possibly could have done without the random pole dancing from an excitable male pensioner but hey, no one else seemed to think it was odd.Take a trip down there, just travel one stop, it is well worth it.;5;July 1, 2014
A different world;Lots of fun and easy to navigate - we hopped on and off trains looking at the artwork and decor of stations. Also very interesting seeing all the shops in the tunnels and food stalls if you walk underground between stations.;4;July 1, 2014
Must see;The Moscow Metro is fantastic. From the art decco stations, to the stained glass, brass statues and the Soviet era architecture is truly amazing. The stations are all very clean, not a scrap of graffiti anywhere! There is good security with police keeping an eye on proceedings at all stops. The system can be confusing, as nothing is in english. Take an organised metro tour, as this will give you a good look and explanation of the beautiful platforms, as well as an understanding of how the system works. Once you work this out, you will find it very efficient, I never waited longer the 90 sec for a train.;5;July 1, 2014
Very efficient, but can improve specially for tourist;As mentioned by other posts, metro in Russia (St. Petersburg and Moscow) is super efficient.Probably after the winter Olympics earlier this year, St. Petersburg metro is quite user friendly now and there are plenty of signage in English. English only tourist should get around without any problem and transfer between lines is quite straightforward. But for Moscow, although they now post the Map with english translation inside the trains, english signage is still lacking inside the terminals. Transfer between lines is a bit confusing at first specially when 3 lines intersect. If say you need to go from line A  to line C, you need to LOOK CAREFULLY at the map to see how these lines are connected. If there is direct connection between line A and C, then you can switch to line C from line A directly. However, if line A is connected only to line B and then line B is connected to  line C, then from A, you need to go to B before you can transfer to C. Also be aware that stations at interchange have different names for each line. You will feel lost if you by mistake refer to the name of the other line you are not in. You will wonder how come you cannot find the station in the list of upcoming stations listed in the signage. It happened to me a few times.Useful tip in Moscow going to SVO airport:If you are planning to take the metro and then transfer to SVO airport bus 815 (851?), please try to leave 1 credit in your metro ticket as that credit can be used in the bus. If you pay by cash at the bus, it will cost you more. The bus will go first to domestic terminals B /C before circling around (long circle)  to get to the international terminal F.  The distance between Term B/C and Term F is far, so don't worry, just sit tight.  I felt I was lost after Term B/C and thought the bus is driving away from the airport. It's good the local people in the bus told me to relax.  Bus ride is about 45 min without traffic.;4;July 1, 2014
The Best Way To Travel Moscow;I only travelled 2 short trips on the Moscow Metro from Cosmos Hotel to the Kremlin. The trains are very fast and come very often so there is no problem if you miss one. The colour coding of the stations helped non Russian speakers like myself get around. Plan your trip in advance and count your stops to the station you want. I liked the Saint Petersburg Metro a lot better as it has a younger cleaner look about and newer trains. The Moscow Metro has beautiful artwork and is the cheapest and best way to travel Moscow.;4;June 30, 2014
Brilliant!;Clean, safe and well artistic in a propagandistic-motif. Some of the best soloist's I have ever enjoyed, play here. Don't miss it!;4;June 30, 2014
Be Sure and Visit the Beautiful Moscow Metras;There are so many beautiful Moscow Metras!  Most of them are on the Circle Line.  You can visit them all on 1 ticket, as long as you don't leave the station - just hop back on the train.The metra stations are the most beautiful works of art - the Russians are lucky to have them.;5;June 30, 2014
Literally the best subway I have ever seen in the world;I have been fortunate to experience the subway in Paris, London, Athens, etc. and the subway in Moscow is the best I have ever seen.  There is no trash, trains come every 90 seconds, they have high ceilings, beautiful mosaics, and ornate decorations.  Don't get me wrong, the other subway systems I mentioned were also fantastic but Moscow is really impressive.;5;June 30, 2014
On time all the time!;If you have been to Moscow, hopefully the Metro has been one of the options to get around you have tried. It is truly a marvelous system to get around Moscow. Very clean and efficient. Going down or up the long,long escalators is an experience on itself. If you watch how much you lean in is crazy! At the exchange areas, there is some great artwork to be observed. It can be really crowded at times during the day, as it handles a significant number of riders. My only watch out, is pick pockets. One tried to get my wallet, unsuccessfully. Don't let that deter you from the cheapest, most efficient way of getting around Moscow!;4;June 29, 2014
You will need it.;Moscow is a BIG city, with heavy traffic at all times, so you will need to master the metro. I was a bit paranoid by the prospect of tacking this with no English signs. You need a app or map with the Cryllic names. The ticketing is quite easy to use, the actual train hardware was not that great. We studied up on what are deemed the better stations an spent half a day looking at them, was worth the effort. The multiple line transfer stations can require a lot of walking. Read a good guide and pay attention to the line colours if you are confused by the signs.;5;June 29, 2014
Best Attraction in Moscow;There are metros all over the world but nothing matches the Moscow Underground.Paris' metro is like an underground tram system, trips are slow and short between stations (well in central Paris at least). London you feel like you are squeezing between buildings or entering service tunnels to reach a train that feels like a compressed bus. Nothing much to say about either of them as both are architectually bland.Moscow however presents graduer a ride on some trains that feel you are on a runaway roller coaster. These trains move really fast. If you search Google you will learn more but in short the inner city stations of which there are many are architectually brilliant. Each depicting a story either assigned to the growth or excellence of the Soviet Union.A word of warning though for some .. don't go sightseeing before 10.00-10.30am or during rush hour later in the day. Moscow on a normal midweek day is 11+ million people and trains can be as close as 30 secs apart. Enjoy.;5;June 29, 2014
If a certain Danish brewer did transport.........;What a wonderful way to travel around a city! The stations are like exhibitions in an art gallery. Wonderful. Oh and the trains run on time and quickly - but to be fair even if you were delayed, you'd enjoy waiting, as there is so much to see down there.;5;June 28, 2014
Amazing underground;This is a very deep Metro with faster escalators than in London and at the bottom of each escalator there is a booth with an operator with 4 monitors. Most of the entrances to the Metro are in high attractive buildings from the Soviet era. Inside the halls and platforms are very clean and decorated with rococo plater work, inset paintings and/or bronze statues depicting the Soviet era.;5;June 26, 2014
Ready to be WOWED!;In February, we went to the Olympics, then visited St. Petersburg and Moscow.  The Moscow Metro is very fast, sometimes crowded but beautiful.  It is best if you are with a guide because you can learn so much of the history and that is what makes it that much more beautiful. Travelers should really look at Russia as a beautiful place to visit.  East West Tours do a marvelous job with guides, drivers and accommodations.  We loved the whole trip and would like to do it again.;5;June 25, 2014
A must see in Moscow;The metro stations in Moscow are works of art.  One warning, many of the escalators are very long and move faster than in the US.  The metro line is easy to navigate.  At each station on the wall shows the station you are in in red and then the other stations with an arrow indicating the direction the train is traveling.;5;June 19, 2014
Interesting  art work...;The Moscow Metro was built in the Stalin era and he wanted to make a statement so got them designed with fantastic murals and decorations. We struggled moving around on the metro but went on a guided tour. Well worth doing.  I did read on Trip Advisor someone had written a self guided tour of the metro. You can find it if you search TA.;4;June 19, 2014
the people's palaces;After the Moscow metro, i will never be able to look at the London underground without being disappointed.. the metro stations in Moscow are stunning - spacious, marbled and with statues or chandeliers dotted about they are worth taking a look at. There are tours specifically to see the metro stations but as we were using the metro a lot to get around Moscow's attractions we just took the time to appreciate them as and when we were traveling.;5;June 19, 2014
This is a 'Must See';The Moscow Metro system, although not as old at the London Underground, is unbelievable.  Each stop has it's own individual features.  Some have chandeliers, others have stained glass windows, mosaic works of art, etc. etc., and it most definitely doesn't disappoint.  Please don't go to Moscow without seeing it;5;June 19, 2014
Like visiting a grand, opulent museum. A must see for everyone!;What an experience!Even if you don't ride the subway, one should visit some of the underground stations.Going down the escalator itself is an experience as they are high speed and some of them are a kilometre long, so if you suffer from vertigo, don't look down, just look straight ahead.When you get there, you will see something you have never experienced in a subway before.Crystal chandeliers, statues, high, detailed ceilings, intricate marble floor designs, beautiful colours and other fusions of organic stone and material.There is even a detailed mosaic of Stalin in the Biblioteka Imeni Lenina metro.If you visit the Ploshchad Revolyutsii Metro, you will see a brass statue of a dog with a bit of a worn nose. It is believed that if you rub its nose, it will bring you good luck, who knows (no pun intended - ok, pun intended) if its true, but go ahead anyway.The Metros are worth a visit even if you don't ride the train, as each one has a different theme by different artists utilising different mediums. If you do ride the train, which is a great and worthwhile experience you need to know two things:1. There is no English at all, on any signage, inside or out, so brush up on your Cyrillic alphabet before you travel (which you can easily learn on the internet) as it will make your trip much easier to navigate and more pleasant. It will also stand you in good stead for street signs as you walk around Moscow. You don't need to understand what it says, you just need to be able to read and pronounce the names.2. In some of the Metros, you might struggle to find the train. That's because the entrance to the track has doors which look like elevator doors which you wont be able to open. Don't worry, as soon as the train arrives, the doors will magically open and you will walk through to the train.All in all, a great experience and certainly worthwhile, so go forth and enjoy.;5;June 18, 2014
Realy huge underground system!;Hundereds of subway station! So if you want to travel fast in Moscow, you have to use subway! But it is not without complications... The first is, that lot of trains are realy old. Second, Moscow subway is not English friendly at all, signs are in azbuka, so you can lost in a second (only in trains, you can find stations in Latin alphabet on a small map). And lot of confusing transfers too... But trains coming in two minutes interval no matter what and that is great. You don't have to wait!;3;June 18, 2014
take your time on the metro;This is one of the most efficient metro services I have every seen. Every minute to 2 minutes max there is a train. Not all stations are pretty, some are just functional, but some just make you want to get out and enjoy. Take your time to do so. With the circle line, you get the see some of the most awesome ones, but there are more. Metro is cheap, only 40 ruble for a single ride (about 1 euro).There is not a fixed theme. Every station is different.;5;June 17, 2014
Transportation and Art;I didn't expect riding the metro to be such an interesting experience. The art at each station is stunning and the system was easy to follow. There are some language barriers if you are not familiar with Russian, but just follow the map and you'll get where you need to go. I would highly recommend this as an alternative to taking a taxi.;5;June 14, 2014
Quick and easy way to explore the city;The trains are large and efficient.  They arrive around every minute or so.At rush hour it is a little frantic with everyone shuffling down toward the platforms, so if you are in a group make sure you can see your leader or you could get left behind.  That said it was easy to navigate around and the concourses are magnificent.  Carvings of wheatsheafs and the hammer and sickle adorn the walls, which are lit by intricately moulded light fittings.  Some of the ceilings have mosaics depicting Russian life and heritage.Some of the trains have free wifi and announced stations.If your Russian is not so hot (like mine) take a photo of the name of your station.  I did this and when I got lost, I showed it to a kindly passerby who pointed me in the right direction.  A really easy, quick and cheap way to explore this city.;4;June 14, 2014
moscow metro;we decided to be brave and take a trip on the metro by ourselves! as suggested in the guide book, we decided to go on the circle line, so we knew we wouldnt get too lost. we purchased a single ticket from the machine which luckily was in english,and cheap! when we got to the first station i took a photo of the station name, so we would know where to get back to, and got of at each station to take photos of the beautiful architecture.this is a good way to spend a couple of hours without it costing hardly anything;5;June 14, 2014
Hard to appreciate due to the crowds;Normally I don't rate transport attractions highly at all. Atocha Station in Madrid is just a train station, Dubai Metro is just a metro. However I am willing to make an exception for the Moscow Metro systemA number of the stations are almost artworks in their own right, so much impressive marblework. It's definitely worth hitting Google Images to see some examples. If you want to do a visit to some of the stops, make sure you check which ones are most stop-worthy, and time your visit to avoid peak rushes. The central circuit in Moscow always seems busy, but outlying stops can be vacant in the middle of the day. And on top of that it functions as the most efficient metro I have been on, every 3 minutes, here comes another as the countdown timer at each station shows. Just don't dwell in the doorway, the closing mechanism is brutal and should not be interfered with.;3;June 14, 2014
Interesting place where u meet people of all sorts;the most impressive thing i met in the metro was that when u took with urself a heavy luggage, gentlemen continuously helped you to carry it. They even voluntarily turned to you when u got stuck at a map. But u also met with strange drunkards who rudely grabbed away the bottle in ur hand or who were took away by policemen. You know, this is Moscow.;5;June 13, 2014
Very beautiful station;I was very happy to use this metro but better I know more about Russian language it is 13 lines very nice stations and go every where on Moscow , it is little crowded at evening but you will be happy riding it;5;June 12, 2014
A great experience;While there were some language issues, reading station names,, you must ride the metro to see the wonderful art works that adorn the station walls. It is very inexpensive to travel on the Metro, and once you get started you won't get lost. Always a great way to see Moscow without costing you too much.;4;June 9, 2014
Every metro is an art exhibition hall;Too many beautiful painting, sculpture, and decorations inside every Moscow Metro station. We enjoy them a lot. Do stop by and take some photos. You won't be regretful. The only and the biggest shortcoming is that all the direction and information signs insides Moscow Metro are only written in Russian. It's very confusing for travelers! Learn from St. Petersburg and make them bilingual at least.;5;June 8, 2014
Take the metro not a taxi;This is a great way to get around. Clean, interesting architecture. We were on late at night and felt very safe. Unless you know Russian I think it is a little difficult to figure out your stops so make sure you know ahead of time which color line and which direction your stop is. Pretty easy to figure out;4;June 8, 2014
Don't miss this!;As part of a tour, we saw various underground railway stations and it was amazing. The history and culture of Russia depicted in art work, mosaics and statues. The ceilings, the lighting and the materials used in these stations is fantastic. Each station we went to was so different and so beautiful.  Hint: go after peak hour in the evening, not so many commuters.;5;June 7, 2014
Good Blend of Functionality and Aesthetics;I am not a transportation engineer, but when someone designs a metro system, I assume that it's very important to decide how much emphasis to put on functionality and how much on pleasantness of the system—aesthetics, cleanliness, temperature control, etc. Having used dozens of rapid transit systems around the world, it seems to be like one usually comes at the expense of the other. For example, the NYC and Berlin metros are perfectly functional but not aesthetic, while systems in Mainland China have serious problems with functionality (mostly that the lines are planned poorly) but are clean, shiny, etc.The Moscow Metro is a great blend of both: it's really built to handle enormous traffic, which increases yearly as new destinations become accessible, but the planners in the 20th Century also made sure to make each and every station aesthetically pleasing. All of the stations "inside the ring" can be thought of as tourist attractions. Each has its own theme, and there is art, sculpture and design that matches said theme. If you have time, it is definitely worth visiting all of the central stations.Two things to keep in mind: avoid rush hour—the best times to visit the metro are closer to midnight (it closes at 01:00, give or take), even though traffic is high even then; and keep in mind that the system is not made with tourists in mind—all signs are in Russian, there is almost absolutely no English anywhere. Information even in Russian is scant, so have a printed metro map in hand, and it pays to learn Cyrillic to at least understand which station you're at. Keep in mind that multiple stations are often part of the same complex and going through a corridor could lead you to an entirely different station on a different line.;5;June 7, 2014
Awesome subway system;When our guide said we were touring the subway, I didn't know what to expect. It was amazing and so clean and made of marble, granite and statues of bronze. Don't miss it as it was built during Lenin's time for the people and is still a model for everyone to see.;5;June 6, 2014
Thankyou!;Amazing the vision of Stalin unfolding all around as you ride the Metro through a variety of stations. The only thing missing is Stalin himself and Krushkov had all traces of Stalin removed. Not to missies tour, thankyou Elena;5;June 6, 2014
Go for the Decor and the Experience;Moscow Metro is a must.  The old stations are gloriously outfitted with artwork and mosaics and molded walls and ceilings.  Your jaw will drop at the heavy angle of the escalators; and you can really feel the crush of humanity as hoards of people board and disembark the trains.  It's an experience not to be missed and the quickest, easiest, cheapest way to travel (below Moscow's jammed streets).;5;June 5, 2014
SUCH SPLENDOUR UNDERGROUND;Taking various trains we were able to capture the beauty of various stations below ground.Beware that when you go down by escalator the grade is very steep. In fact you can see how people have to lean back in order to keep themselves upright.We found the Mosaics done up in various Russian themes most interesting.They also have a variety of attractive chandeliers to light the stations.We have never seen such beautiful ornamentation below ground before.They keep the areas below clean too.;4;June 1, 2014
Old Stations Are Fantastic;The historical stations on the metro are absolutely stunning. They are beautiful and filled with interesting history. It is cheap to ride so well worth the look.;5;June 1, 2014
Stalin's public art;Not only is the Metro cheap, efficient and easy to use, some stations contain great public art and architecture. Chandeliers, wall, roof and floor mosaics in Soviet heroic art style, frescoes with Stalin disguised by later changes, statues - it is all here if you know where to look. If you aren't really trying to get from A to B, the one small fare will let you enter the Metro system and travel from station to station admiring the art and architecture. You only need to pay again if you exit the station. We entered at Belorusskaya and traveled to other stations on the ring line before going into Red Square to have a look at Moscow by night.;5;June 1, 2014
One of the best metro systems on the planet;The Metro is very extensive, extraordinarily cheap: only 40 Roubles (less than 70 pence), is highly reliable - no weekend engineering works or the ever-present signal failures of the London Underground, very frequent (the waiting time is between 1 and 2 minutes between trains). And this Metro has a unique feature in the world: many stations are real pieces of art, with mosaics, elaborate statues, reliefs, paintings and art deco styles station styles. Do not bother looking for alternative transport methods in Moscow, use one of the best and most aestethicly pleasing public services available in the world. Also, if you are there for tourism do not miss visiting and admiring the two dozen stations which are outstandingly beautiful. It is worth travelling to some od these stations on purpose!;5;May 30, 2014
Beautiful Stations, Efficient Transport, very little English;Traveling on the Moscow Metro is fantastic, especially when the weather is bad. The stations offer an artistic journey through history and include many Soviet-Era statues and other relics. Observing people is fantastic; this is real-life, non-tourist Russia. Train cars are older and quite loud. They arrive in very quick intervals. Be sure that you give up your seat for old folks and little kids; it's a cultural expectation. Because there is almost no signage in English, memorize the Cyrillic spelling of where you want to go, but also know that transferring from one line to another can be tricky as well through tunnels and up and down escalators/stairs. If you get lost look for a tall blue and red machine with a speaker; hit the button and ask for help. Usually the person on the other end speaks some English. A number of iPhone apps can help you out, particularly Yandex.Metro, which will help you plan your route and estimate the time required.;4;May 29, 2014
The Best Metro;The Moscow Metro works on all levels. It is fast, frequent, cheap, expanding, and very well planned-out. You will be unlucky to wait more than 2 minutes for a train, even at 7am on a Sunday. Muscovites don't run for a train as they know they don't need to. It is a bit noisy, yes, but many of the central stations are beautiful, and some are simply breathtaking. If you like art-deco, you'll love it here. And it has free wi-fi!;5;May 28, 2014
The most beautiful and efficient;I have been using Moscow metro system my entire life. It is the fastest and most efficient metro system in the world with train intervals never more that 2 minutes. If they are above, it is a disaster already, because a crowd is mounting at the platform. Stations look more like palaces and everything is so very beautiful and clean. The only question I would have about Moscow metro would be long distances between stations. Those are really 30 minutes walks, not 10-15 like in most of European capitals.;5;May 27, 2014
Give yourself plenty of time;I only took a couple of trips on the Metro as I didn't have a lot of time. Download a map on to your phone and count stops to avoid getting lost. Recognise the station names and don't expect to see station names from the train. Do some research to find the better examples. The ones I saw were great but not as impressive as some of the pictures I have seen. Staff are helpful & friendly. Buy books of tickets it's cheaper.;4;May 24, 2014
A must see!;Whilst we didn't have any language skills, we used the metro for seven days. Some days just to soak up the beauty of them all. Palaces of the people indeed! The marble floors, bronze statues, the cut glass columns and chandeliers, they are truly stunning. Oh and I should point out, they are very cheap and efficient too.Hard to believe they carry in excess of 7 million passengers a day.;5;May 23, 2014
Beautiful stations but Russian is difficult.;The Moscow Metro stations are beautiful and safe.Difficult to negotiate if you dont speak or understand Russian but please try as it is worth it.;4;May 20, 2014
Stunning;The Moscow metro stations make public transport a joy. They are all beautifully decorated, each with their own unique style. There were carved glass pillars, brass statues, paintings and huge chandeliers. You also get the excitement of the huge escalators, the stations are some of the deepest in the world.The metro is importantly, also easy to navigate, despite travelling as a family with only a very basic understanding of Russian and Cyrillic we easily bought tickets from the machines (many of which have English settings) and got off at the correct stops.Honestly just have a go on it if you are ever in Moscow, you don't even need to have a specific destination in mind. We discovered some amazing places by just getting off at random stops.;5;May 20, 2014
Awesome!;Very cool to take the metro in Moscow, any journey is at one fixed cheap price. Do not use if scared of big drops as the escalators can get very very steep and is common to see drunk people falling down them.;4;May 19, 2014
One of the sights to see!!!;Not often would one list a metro as a must see however Moscow is very much the exception! The two stations that caught our eye in particular were Kievskaya (Киевская) with its wonderful friezes depicting Ukrainian life and the central Ploshchad Revolyutsii (Площадь Революции) with its life size bronze sculptures heralding the achievements of the revolution.;5;May 17, 2014
What can you say?;These are most interesting and beautiful. Palaces of the People indeed. Marble floors and tiled walls, bronze statues and art deco muralss. They are clean and efficient and very easy to use. You have to see these;4;May 14, 2014
Great fast efficient METRO;Easy and safe to use, more clean then any metro in other cities, u will only believe once u see itIts also cheap and simple,As a tourist try to avoid times between 7-9 a.m and 5-7p.m !! Super busyRest is like going on a museum tour, Metro is old and beautiful;5;May 11, 2014
A hidden gem!;If you've travelled on London's underground system ( or indeed other systems worldwide) you will know that they are what you would expect - basic,functional and efficient .but when you travel on Moscow's Metro  ......... Boy,are YOU in for a Big surprise !!Marble floors,wall decorations sculptures,paintings,murals - and even chandeliers!!you could be forgiven for thinking that you took the wrong turning,and ended uo in a hotel foyer,but you would be wrong .No wonder there are companies offering tours round the Metro -you just HAVE to see it.Simply astonishing!!;5;May 10, 2014
Very interesting;We visited with our guide a number of the architecturally and historically diverse Metro stations.  Something you don't see anywhere else in the world and well worth seeing.  Only one took our fancy as a great piece of art or architecture, but overall quite unique.;4;May 9, 2014
Fast and efficient;Architecturally, station interiors are diverse and fascinating but choose your time to look as during busy periods you will be swept along by commuters. Wooden escalators and chandeliers provide an olde world charm, but walk ways are wide and have an airy feel. Buy tickets in bulk as this saves money - (May 2014) single trip 40 roubles - get 11 trips for 300 roubles. Station signage can be tricky, and cannot be seen from the train - count the stops and you won't go far wrong.  Easy way to get around the city - simples!;4;May 7, 2014
A train every 3 minutes;The Moscow metro system, together with that in St. Petersburg, are both a product of the glory days of the Soviet Union.  The trains can be timed to arrive at the station literally every three minutes, at least the Moscow Metro.  Also breathtaking are the statues of icons of the system at most of the main stations (some of which had been sculptured by the grandfather of our Russian friend), as well extremely ornate artwork of the walls and ceiling.  Also the elevators from street level to the platforms levels are some of the deepest in the world, some taking up to 3 minutes to negotiate, as long as the commute between individual stations.  Another reason the stations are so deep in the ground is the ability to be used as nuclear fallout shelter during the Cold WAr;4;May 4, 2014
Cheap and excellent!;Cheap and excellent! The only problem is that all is in Cyrillic!! Many stations are in Liberty stile! Very big and well funcioning!;5;May 4, 2014
Underground palace;I live in this city all my life and I took our Metro as a given entity. When I heard that there is metro in other cities I was sure it looked like ours with some variations. Now when it became possible to travel around the world and see other cities including their underground I can assure that our's is the BEST! I mean from the esthetic point of view. It is beautiful! Visitors must see stations Mayakovskaya, Komsomolskaya (circular line), Kropotkinskaya, ploschad Revolutsii, Arbatskaya - these are old stations, but modern ones are also attractive: Vystavochnaya, Slavianskij boulevard. At the moment I go to the office via Kievskaya and I discover it every day. It's architecture, pictures, lamps ...It is definetely worth seeing. You will love it!;5;April 28, 2014
Fabulous, efficient -- and confusing to visitors;The Metro is a great way to get around Moscow at a very affordable price.  Many of the trains are vintage giving you the old school experience.  As many have noted, there are a number of spectacular stations that are worth seeing.All that said, even to the most jaded subway rider, the Metro can be confusing to non-natives. The ticket machines do sell in different languages, but after that, you better know your Russian because there are little to no signs in English as other countries provide (even as a second language to other countries). At one point my colleague and I couldn't figure out how to get out of a station - we ran into many нет выхода (no exit) signs, but there were no signs to tell you where to exit.  The signs only show the street name on signs that look the same as the subway station instruction signs - so a visitor can't tell if it's to a train or an exit. Finally we felt a breeze in a hallway and followed it to the stairs up and out.  Also, while the train lines are color coded, the signs for them are mostly blue, no matter what line you're in.  So in a station where you connect from one line to another line -- well, no easy help there. That's a trend everywhere in Moscow - they have so much to offer, but they just do not understand tourism well at all.;4;April 26, 2014
more than transportation system;everyone visiting Moscow should visit Metro. Most of the stations are absolutely remarkable, more like palaces, each one unique. In the down town you can get down at any station, but rather visit several of them to get idea on variety of styles. My favorite one is Mayakovskaya (green line) - pick marble and mosaics on the ceiling. It got gran-Prix at 1939-40 New York World's Fair. Another remarkable station is Kropotkinckays (red line) - another World's Fair  gran-Prix  winner in 1935&1937. The "Stalin baroque" style is very well represented by either Kievskaya or Komsomolskaya stations (circle line). By frankly as said you may pick mostly any station, they all are very nice. Try to avoid rush hours 7:30-10am and 5-7:30pm as it is crowded with people traveling to/from work. You will need to pay about 1$ (40RUR) entrance fee for one trip.;5;April 17, 2014
one if not the most beautiful metro in the world;all stations in the center of Moscow have a theme and reflect the know how of the USSR artisans whom decorated the stations.  You will enjoy the marvels of Russia like an history book going from stations to stations. take with you an explanation for each stations like this you will enjoy much more your visit, a must see when in Moscow, avoid rush hours if you want to see the whole picture.;5;April 17, 2014
Beautiful and slightly difficult;Moscow metro (underground) is one of beautiful places to visit. There are old stations with monuments and even smell of history. Most of them are on Circle Line and in the centre of city. There are a lot of new stations with their own design. The difficult thing is that there are no English or any other languages' version of stations names. Nevertheles you can find your way from necessary schemes offered at your hotel. You can ask for help other passengers and find one speaking at least English. I hope you will enjoy your trip in Moscow metro.;4;April 16, 2014
Underground masterpiece;I would agree with all appraisals reviews. Moscow metro is unique - historical monument, facinating mozaics, various architecture styles, clean and practical. Take time to explore central stations as well as some remote - Aviamotornaya, Volzhskaya. Nowerdays we have a lot of critics that metro is overcrowded and stuffy. Yes, it's true during primetime - morning hours (8-9) and evening (6-7) - but it is not that so awfull or bad...If you plan to explore metro - chose week-end days.;5;April 16, 2014
Moscow metro must visit;Hi, i'm from Moscow, but i decided to write my opinion in English just for our foreign guests. Metro in Moscow is a place that must to be visit. It's not only transport, but also an amazing place. Old stations were built like a palace or public museum (there are mosaic, sculptures, chandeliers and so on) and certainly without budget limits. I advise to visit stations inside Circle line, like Belorusskaya, Mayakovskay, Ploshad Revolyutsii, Kievskay, Komsomolskay (radial and circle line), Okhotny Ryad. You can remember: Green Line, Red Line are one of the oldest in MosMetro (the oldest one is the Red line from Komsomolskaya to the center). But take into account the proper time to visit metro - advise you to visit it during the daylight (from 10 a.m. till 5 p.m. or after 9 p.m.). Don't hesitate to see stations on hub stations (where you can change lines, for example, from radial line to circle line or from one radial line to another one), because stations are not the same even if it's called equally. Also i can advise to visit Vorob'evy Gory - the station built on the metro bridge just upon the river and it has glass wall (to observe environs) or Vystavochnay (sometimes there is some small exhibition on the balcony of the station). But some stations rather ordinary like Aleksandrovsy Sad, Sukharevskay (about light green line i don't remember).A ticket to enter metro station costs 40 rubbles (one enter) but you can change lines unlimited times. If you are going to use metro almost every day while you are staying in Moscow, you can buy card called Troika (50 rubles as a returnable deposit) and then fill up it by your own (the price of one entrance by using card costs 28 rubles and also you can use the card in ground public transport for the same price).I think there is no need to see all stations at one day, because it's rather noisy place and you can feel tired quickly (but it depends if you go there by your own or with an excursion group). Good luck.;5;April 16, 2014
Moscow Metro;If you live here, as I do, you get sick of the metro pretty fast, but some of the stations are lovely.  I confess, however, to never having understood the point of an organized tour of these places though.  Just use it to get around the center, slow down on your walks through, and you'll have seen most of the good stations.  Buy you cards at the Kassa (ticket counter).  Best to buy for several trips.  The sellers DO NOT speak English.  So you need to say, "Na dvatset, 20 trips, na deeaset, 10, na pyati, 5, etc.  (You can also just hold up your fingers.) A great way to get around Moscow....unless you use it day after day!;4;April 16, 2014
Overcrouded and unsafe;You want to play a game of survival for just a couple of quid? Go for it, otherwise stay away from a crowd similar only to only japanese famous peak hours, from homeless which find shelter during cold 6 months in the subway,  from criminals which use almost total absence of video surveillance. Welcome to Moscow subway and try to stay away.;1;April 16, 2014
The world-best metro;First - it's reliable! Second - it's clean! Third - stations are beautiful! Fourth - it's cheap (approx.0,5 eurocents if you buy 11 trips). And last but not least - it's fast! It is really fast - train interval in a rush time is less than a minute! Other time - not more than 2 min. There are no traffic jams in Moscow metro and always know how much would it take to easily cross half of the city under ground. There are no better alternative to move over the Moscow.;5;April 16, 2014
You can hardly find something similar;Most of old stations are art objects. I agree that the best time to visit them is around afternoon when not so many people trying to use it. Otherwise it could be overcrowded. Select old stations inside circle line or circle line stations. I believe you'll be surprised and enjoy the view.;5;April 16, 2014
The best metro in the world;As i told, the best metro in the world. Maybe it's the first thing which you have to visit in Moscow. Especially in february))))));4;April 16, 2014
Beautiful but overcrowded in rush hours;I live in Moscow so I got used already to Moscow metro, but some stations attract me so much that I go there just to see their beauty again. I love Komsomolskaya station (the ring line), Ploschad Revolutsii with statues of young workers, students, soldiers. Kievskaya station is also very beautiful, the renovated Mayakovskaya, Elektrozavodskaya. Unfortunately most of the stations have their names only in Russian, so you need to take a map and a guide with you and avoid rush hours;4;April 16, 2014
Moscow metro;If you'd like to feel the distingwish of europeanean subway, - visit the Moscow metro. You'll suprisingly enjoy it. But be cautious -  it is crowded here at the working days.The best time to visit it - the holidays.;4;April 16, 2014
must see;Many Beautiful stations with its own history. My favorite is  "Revolution Square" (Ploshad Revolucii) Almost everyone  rubs the dog 's nose in this metro station, students come here since 1938.  Touching dog's nose, the student successfully pass the session. As people say it brings luck and happiness even when you do not believe it. Every day thousands of passengers are touching dog's nose and make a wish. Just try it!But do it on the early weekend, when it is not so crowd.;5;April 16, 2014
Best Train system;The Metro is amazing - beautiful stations, and you NEVER wait more than a couple of minutes for a train. The coaches may be crowded at certain times, but this gives a tourist a real opportunity to mix with the locals!;4;April 15, 2014
The palaces and museums under streets of Moscow;The Moscow Metro stations are both practical and beautiful. For all visitors it is recommended to come and see these wonderful places. I advice to select the time, when there are not so many people, just to enjoy sculptures and decorations on walls and ceiling.;5;April 15, 2014
A must see;There are so many unique and interesting stations on the Moscow Metro that you need to spend a day travelling around to enjoy the total experience.;4;April 15, 2014
Underground museum;Moscow Metro is an underground museum, where each station symbolizes milestones in the history of the country: before the WW2 and  military period of the WW2, postwar peace construction, nations friendship and contemporary art.;5;April 15, 2014
Moscow Metro;The most beautiful metro in te World. Look some stations inside ring line. They are tematic - about history of USSR.;5;April 15, 2014
Moscow underground;If you want to see the beauty of Moscow underground stations it is worth to spend some time exploring it. Especially at the central part, the oldest part of Moscow. Every station is a unique and really beautiful place to visit and enjoy wonderful decoration. It is better to plan a visit avoiding pick hours and to see the architecture, pictures and sculptures of the soviet period.;5;April 15, 2014
You will never get lost;Moscow Metro is connected very well and its impossible for you to do missing. Just get a translated version of the Moscow Metro Map and you will never go wrong.;5;April 15, 2014
The most beautiful metro;If Moscow metro is overcrowded you cannot see anything except backs and legs. But if you come in the evening you can see the most beautiful stations in the world. It's like a museum - statues, mosaic, paints... You should see it!;5;April 15, 2014
Cheap, overcrowded at peak, but fast;Cheap, overcrowded at peak hours, but fast way to move around Moscow. Old stations are grear example of Soviet architecture;3;April 15, 2014
Moscow without metro is dead!;The metro in Moscow is the only fadt, reliable and safe way to move around. I dropped my car more than 3 years ago and since then I have been using only the metro and for me a new lige started. I can now plan any meeting with no delay. Thans metro I also walk more than before and this is great to my health at my age. Moreover Moscow' metro is a pice of art in itself, a great view every day indeed!I live in Moscow and recommend visitors to use the Metro.;5;April 15, 2014
Try till you like it!;Guys, it is one of the most crowded subway at the world with 8 millions travelers per day. It is the simplest way to travel from point A to point B for locals and they do not care about tourists. Thus be ready for inconveniences))). Nevertheless it is beutiful, soviet-branded and historical. The best soviet architects worked to make it brilliant and bright. You have to visit it and feel the authmosphere of that time, when people where able to believe in miracle and do everything for it!;5;April 15, 2014
A mix of...;I won't be innovative if reccommend strongly to everyone to deep into Moscow metro: Mayakovskaya, Arbatskaya, Kievskaya, Vorobyevy gory, etc-the stations are fantastically beautiful and every one has it's style and character (within the Ring-the brown line).The best time to explore -summer weekends when it's cool and free; worst - 8-9 am & 6-7 pm weekdays, better be out of the way when everyone hurries to the office. And try not to coincide with some football games in Moscow, though it could be a memorable experience to travel in train full of fans.;5;April 15, 2014
Stations like Palaces and Trains that run almost back to back;Some of the stations are like palaces, the trains are very frequent and its amazing value. If only every Metro was a good;5;April 9, 2014
Art and beauty in underground;I have been there before and used it also, but cannot get enough of its beauty. Each station has special beauty. If I have time to ride metro and visit other couple of station to see the architectual beauty and soviet art in metro. The most beautiful metro in the world!;5;April 8, 2014
Fast and practical;You can read many pros and cons about Moscow metro but it is definitely one of the best transport systems. It's extremely overcrowded during busy hours, but still the fastest way to reach any place in the city. I would also like to mention wonderful decoration of every metro station. Sometimes it looks like you are in a museum.;4;April 8, 2014
A subway system like no other;We travelled from our river boat cruise ship by subway to downtown Moscow. I took a side trip to the Dynamo Ice Arena and watched a practice there. Each subway stop is a little art gallery, one is all brass statues , another is mosaics while another is marble. People take tours of this system to view the artwork. Be very careful as it is very easy to get lost (I can't read Cyrillic) and most tourist groups get tone or more pockets picked (I was the lucky one this time). The trains travel about twice as fast as the Toronto trains and the stops seem to be three times as far away from each other. The subway system is colour coded and has a numbering system but I found it very challenging to find my way about. It's worth it though;5;March 31, 2014
Metro in Moscow;The architecture is special and different than Europe. Easy to acces.You have free internet WIFI, a good phone signal. I loved it.Be careful if you don't know any Russian or cyrillic letters - nothing is in English!;5;March 30, 2014
Quite interesting;This metro is very efficient and the soviet era design and structure is very elaborate. Fast and very steep escalators move millions of commuters every day. Quite the experience.;5;March 27, 2014
Moscow Underground;The stations are all beautiful works of art. The trains are not the most comfortable but it is worth to take a ride just to see the stations.;5;March 25, 2014
fantastic;this is not only metro ,it is like art gallery each station has different pictures or different scluptere etc,also If you know how to use it ,you can reach every where easly,cheap and usuful,;5;March 25, 2014
Definitely worth a look - it's history and culture;There's a great collection of images here, and descriptions of how civilized and beautiful the stations are. I've only been in 3 or 4 stations, and made a point of really exploring one which I'd read about (near Revolution Square), but it all rings true. I will say that most times, morning and afternoon, that I used the Metro, it was jammed with people, quick moving, and intent on getting into or off the train - same as in New York, and I imagine many urban commuter lines. My point: it's usually quite busy, and in terms of photos, I needed to take photos quickly due to all the people and the occasional wary officer. But the whole length of every trip I took was full of bronze statues and mosaic tunnels and roofs, as others' photos show (though with many people!). Yes, it is definitely quite 'civilized', orderly, and efficient - and also testimony to what was seen as a grand society, and still is, in terms of its Metro. Not easy without speaking Russian (I had a guide), and my local companions tended to look at their phones for the number of stops, while I was simply curious about the different numbers and color bands.  For sure, I'd recommend getting to one event or destination via the Moscow Metro. It is a bit of history, lots of art, and something with which to compare our own favorite mass-transit lines and stations.  It not only looks well, it works well too.;5;March 22, 2014
Do Your Homework;Before leaving home, download a coloured map of the Metro system and note key locations such as your hotel, the train terminus from the airport, key sights, etc. and inter-change stations. It is cheap to use, around 80p per ride in the city centre, with discounts with multi-journey Oyster-type cards. Having a map with station names in Roman and Cyrillic is absolutely essential, as direction signs in stations are entirely Cyrillic. Once on a train, the map is in both Cyrillic and Roman and a dynamic indicator shows the next stop. Although a bit unnerving at the outset, do give it a try.;4;March 4, 2014
Fabulous, clean, safe, efficient;The story we got is Stalin wanted to showcase the capabilities of the Communist economic model and he focused his efforts on the Moscow Metro.  It is truly a beautiful place, the architecture of each station unique.  Very little graffiti and someone has attempted to clean up what little there is.  Transit police are armed, so I expect the graffiti artists have found someplace else to practice their vandalism.;5;March 1, 2014
Best in the world;Any time an American wants to paint Russia as drastically less civilized than the States, I want to ask them to commute for a month on the Moscow metro and then head back to commuting in NY or Boston or DC and see how they feel then.Trains are efficient and on time. The stations are clean and free of pee smell. And some of them happen to be architectural masterpieces.;5;February 28, 2014
Rapid Transit and Art...!!;The Moscow Metro is a cost effective way around town and stations are easy to find from street level (look for the big 'M's). Down at the platform levels, each station is a work of art, literally. Most stations are designed slightly differently, some with wonderful mosaics, some with fantastic brass or marble statues, marvellous painted ceilings, chandeliers - it is like the whole place is a gallery, which I guess was part of the plan. Worth a look and a good way to get about. The Metro route maps in Russian can be a challenge, although I think you can pick up a map in English. I should also mention that the trains are frequent, and they don't stop for long...!!;4;February 28, 2014
Be savvy be quick;Very efficient and cheap way of travelling around Moscow. Don't be put off by the fact that all stations are in crillic, get map with both European and Russian names on and count stations. We found that the locals were very helpful in getting you from A to B. just be aware that doors close quickly and don't bounce back open if you are in the way like they do in London, husband nearly got left behind and once we were all in, train took off really quickly, sending 4 of us flying down carriage, much to the amusement of us and the locals so hold on tight!!;4;February 27, 2014
An Attraction on it's own !;I never got round to writing this review - I was in Moscow around June 2011 - and i could not forget the metro stations there. In short, it was simply amazing. i would not normally insist that you use a metro but the metro stations in Moscow are an attraction itself. Not only are the metros frequent (every 2-5mins), efficient with hardly any wait time and good connections to tourist attractions sights, but it is also an architecturally beautiful structure. Each station is different and unique with high ceiling, wide space, built deep underground, some with beautiful sculptures others with their own uniqueness. It's in short the most beautiful metro station i've been too and yes, do visit if u can. If u're worried about safety, whilst i was there i noticed cops stationed around the station keeping an eye out for trouble, and we were never harassed or disturbed by anyone even though we clearly had the distinction of being foreigners.;5;February 27, 2014
The most beautiul stations in the world?;I travel by train every day so the last thing I want to do on a holiday is to get on ne. Except that is in Moscow where each stationm is like walkig into a museum m with beautiful decor, awsome statues, ornate ceilings and marble and stoen everywhere. The Moscow Metro is everywhere, with the sign of M easy  to spot. Easy to get from A to B if you can overcome your fear of the cyrillic language as the lines are colour coded. You can get a pass from a machine for around 40 rubles - very cheap compared to London prices;5;February 24, 2014
Really impress by the way it operate;I have been to quite a few places with Metro, but no where like the Moscow Metro. It is just huge system with very complicated for the one first try it. And there isn't any thing in English and if you are not experience, speak no English and you would be deaf. As everything is in Russian: the sign board, the announcement...and the people do not speak English well.The Metro is very good looking and at some place, i event see the build from 1917 (very old one). It is very convenience since i went with my Russian friends, she guide me how to go in map and show me the the way to go. And it is fine later on when i go buy my self. The Moscow Metro it self actually is the historical places. Some part of it has very nice decoration motifs and the whole system is really clean.The first thing you need to do is check very well the Map of it before you try.It is worth to try and it could be the largest Metro System in the World. Any where in Moscow could be reached by Metro System.Good memory then,Cheers,Antony;5;February 24, 2014
The best metro.;The Moscow Metro is an attraction itself not just a mode of transport. We obviously didn't get around all of the stations, but we can definately recommend Kievskaya, Komsomolskaya & Park Kultury for photo shots. The system is clean, safe, cheap & efficient (we never had to wait more than 2 minutes for a train). It seems that you can buy magnetic cards for various numbers of tickets. We bought in blocks of ten, & each time we entered the metro we scanned our card & it deducted one ride. You can use the same card for two or more people, just by passing the card back. My one piece of advice would be to spend one hour learning the Russian alphabet. It isn't as complicated as it initially looks. All signs & station names are in Russian. It definately helped us being able to quickly recognise our destinations.;5;February 23, 2014
Most Impressive Subway System;A massive and most impressive subway system.  With it's statues and mosaics, the system is like a museum.  You will find yourself taking pictures.  This system is by far the deepest subway system I have ever entered.  During the Cold War pictures were not allowed but now,  this is not a problem.  The system is clean, very extensive, and always crowded so it's a good idea to plan out your route well in advance;5;February 23, 2014
the way to see moscow;We cant speak Russian but that didnt stop us. the staff were briliant communicating with sign language and pointing to map we went to the outskirts of Moscow and back. good system - one cost very cheap. We had a great time but remember the doors of the carriages do not open if you get stuck and close quickly!!!;5;February 22, 2014
Impressive transit system;Other than the lack of English signs, I'm always impressed by how efficient and fast Moscow metro are. It's cheap and a great way to explore Moscow than Taxis. And I especially love the interior architectural and designs in each and every stations.;5;February 21, 2014
clean;Amazing how clean this is kept in the muck of winter.  Well marked signs, though not in English, nothing a good guide book can't help you to navigate.;4;February 20, 2014
Amazing!;Do not miss at least one trip on the Metro. Once the system has been worked out, Cyrillic alphabet and signs not the same colours for the different lines, it is a wonder to use. We found it very safe and fast. I downloaded a very good app onto the iPhone which gave me lines and how many stops to the destination, a major help. I certainly wouldn't have missed using the Metro.;5;February 20, 2014
A wow and must see.;We spent three hours travelling around the Metro and thoroughly enjoyed the experience.Each station was different, ranging from bronze statues to the finest crystal lighting.A must see place to visit and the fares are ridiculously cheap.;5;February 18, 2014
marvelous Metro;just stunning stations, really worth a look - like nothing i have ever seen underground!  we had a local show us around, so really saw so much in a short space of time.  so in the evening after rush hour - so much quieter!;5;February 18, 2014
Oh, my god!;I have never seen anything better in public places. It was like visiting great museums and galleries by cheap ticket. Each station impress by its beauty, and each one is unique. Worth seeing!;5;February 18, 2014
The Underground;It was like entering a museum. Every station was unique and very clean.  The stations go back to the Stalin era when propaganda was alive and well.  Many depictions of scenes that try to show harmony and cooperation between the various states that made up the Soviet Union.;5;February 7, 2014
Better learn cyrillic, but worth the effort;The Moscow Metro is like an underground art museum, while taking you where you want to go quickly and efficiently. It's very conveniently networked with the train stations and cheap - I spent 200 rubles ($7) for a 24-hour pass. There's only one problem, which is that all the signs are in Russian (cyrillic alphabet), so it's not an easy feat to figure out what you're doing the first time. Once you've solved the puzzle and recognized the way, it's easy, like anything else. I found my way thanks to having studied the cyrillic alphabet before the trip, but I wasn't so good that I didn't have to ask for help from a kind Russian woman who spoke a little English. I felt safe, despite having heard that's where the questionable characters hang out. Worth using!;4;February 7, 2014
Fast, cheap and everywhere;If you go to Moscow and do not ride the Metro at least once you are missing out.  The system is extraordinary and its EVERYWHERE.  Learn some Russian and it will help.  Some signs are in latin characters but you will do better if you understand Cyrillic.  The kiosk ladies can be brutal so use your fingers to signify numbers if necessary.  Again though I recommend learning at least some rudimentary Russian.;5;February 6, 2014
Could have spent a day just visiting stations!;The Metro is a cheap way to spend the day enjoying architecture, sculpture and to watch the people of Moscow.  A definite must is the Ploshchad Revolyutsii station (blue line in the center of the city), where there are many statues of revolutionaries, several with dogs.  It is believed that rubbing the dogs' noses brings good luck- all have very shiny noses as a result!  I also found it interesting that the rooster is also quite shiny and seems to be the target of many affectionate pats as well.  Perhaps this is the statue to attend if you wish delicious dining while in the city?;5;February 6, 2014
How awesome are the stations;I was in Moscow in Nov 2013 and had been told that travel by Metro was a must do. I agree. The metro stations themselves are a work of art. The light fixtures, the chandeliers, the art on the walls, the mosaic, amazing. Fit this into your itinerary.For any travelers who suffer from a fear of heights or who are claustrophobic, be aware that the many of the stations are very very very deep underground and in most cases the escalator goes straight down and straight up without a break. I don't like heights and this scared me. But maybe that was just me :);5;February 6, 2014
Palace for people;This is the unique place to be. Its huge, beautiful, but, at the same time - crowdy and stuffy.If you wish to take a look at the stations at their bloom, be sure not to come here at rush hours - from 8am to 10-10:30 and 5:30pm to 8pm, you will be just flooded with crowd.All the stations inside the "ring" line are works of art - you can see war, people and just everything! I have heard many times, that metro in Stockholm is better, but I've been there, and it isn't.Also since like 6 years ago, almost all stations got the translation of english so the navigation was simplified.;5;February 5, 2014
The most beautiful and fast transport;We were guided to Metro, and we learned so much about history of Moscow metro. Every station we saw was different, impressive, beautiful and great architecture. Locals use it everyday, as it is fast, comfortable transport in Moscow. It was a little bit crowded, but afternoon time it was less packed. We enjoyed this metro system and beauty of the stations.;5;February 3, 2014
No one really helps!;It's tough, just try and if and when you go wrong (and you will!) retrace your steps and try again!! It's only 28 roubles through whatever zone. Put your money on their version of the London tube Oyster card, tap in and tap out and when you're finished and ready to go home give the card back and whatever money is left on it, they give it back to you. All good. Still have no idea how I managed to get round!!!;3;February 3, 2014
Aging Elegance;If you are in Moscow, the subway system stations are worth seeing.  Each one is different, and some are more elegant than others.  Most represent Soviet era art, with some stained glass from former eastern bloc countries.  A guide is recommended.  Fares are relatively inexpensive, but stations and maps are in Cyrillic alphabet, so a Russian guide is almost essential.  They are safe (we did one trip alone), and there is no graffiti (no one would dare).  Friends from New York said it travelled faster than the subway there.  It runs very deep, but escalators were fine.  If you are there, I wouldn't miss it, but hardly a major destination in it's own right.;3;February 2, 2014
Marvellous Metro;Spent half a day travelling on the metro stopping at around 7/8 stations which were all individually beautiful, the stations are all immaculate and trains arrive every 2 minutes! a bit tricky working out where your going but that's half the fun. Well worth spending some time visiting the best looking stations, mainly on the city ring line and don't forget your camera!;5;February 2, 2014
Interesting Stations!;I took a half day to just go from station to station, stopping at ten that were highlighted in our tour book as the most interesting. The Metro is clean, efficient, and cheap. Most stations are crowded throughout the day and evening, but trains arrive every 1-2 minutes, so you don't have to wait long. There was lots of police presence, so it felt very safe. Most stations are unique and very interesting to see--from an architecture and decor perspective. Well worth a few hours to travel around the city and take it in.;4;February 1, 2014
Goin' underground;Since 1935, the best way to travel around Moscow. Really fast, cheap, safe, and clean! If you have to use more than one line, get ready for a long walk - just like in Paris, the distance between some 'sister stations' can be a good few hundred yards. And there's so much to admire underground: marble and sculptures, stained glass and mosaic... Print yourself a good copy of an English metro map and forget about traffic jams!;4;January 29, 2014
Moscow Metro, very noisy but fast trains and cheap!;I loved using the Metro in Moscow as it is very quick, as long as you don't get lost as everything is written in Russian script. To encourage more to use the Metro they should also provide information desks with some e speaking English, as in some stations there can be three different station names. it is also confusing when you are on a metro train and enter into the station and don't know which station you are in as the signage is small, not labelled well, and easily missed!  then there are those metro workers who sit in the box cubicles at the bottom of the lifts... one may think they are there to assist.....LOL! they speak no English and they do not assist anyone. when I asked my Russian friend why she replied "that is not their job to assist travellers.  they are there to watch the lifts keep moving!"  grrr, guess they've not heard of multi-tasking yet?;4;January 28, 2014
Quite an experience!;Cheap, clean, and fast! Some stations are magnificent and worth taking the time to explore! The long escalator rides were simply unforgettable.;5;January 28, 2014
Excellent Metro System;It's so easy to get around on,buy a multi ride ticket 20rides are 500rubels, & print a good English translated map off and take it with you,plan your trip and count the stations & you will not go wrong and enjoy the experience. But keep hold of your valuables and don't flash your cash be travel wise.;5;January 28, 2014
Never Gonna miss one;As long as you get the right station and directions, you'll get where you want quickly. Some of the metro stops are magnificent;4;January 26, 2014
Superb, clean,on time and a living masterpiece...;Inexpensive clean tidy,precise superb service each station has a different theme take your time in looking at the architecture and the artworks, this is Russia at its best, we in the west could learn a great deal by providing this level of public transport subsidised for greater use.;5;January 26, 2014
You'll be amazed;You should definitely try and set aside a couple of hours to tour the Moscow Metro. Some of the stations are amazing!! However, don't just fling yourself in the Metro without having a plan otherwise you'll likely miss some of the best stations. Try and download a suggested 'tour' - there's plenty, but if you want a good route to follow which takes in the best stations, email me and let me know!  it's a good way to spend a couple of hours - all for 40 roubles! (less that £1).  it's about the cheapest thing to be had in Moscow!!;4;January 26, 2014
cheap, fast and some stations are pieces of art!;cheap, fast, clean. easy to use. but very very crowded. but everything is running smooth. if you need directions ask a younger person on the platform (student for example) my experience is that no one speaks decent english (even the people in het "helpdesk") so ask the you ger poeple who live there. but after a day or two (just like every other city) you know where to go. there are mapsavailable with the station names in russian and english. on the platforms you ony see russian but you can see if the letters match the english translation on the map, and you know where to get of.;5;January 26, 2014
Wonderful and beautiful stations;We rode metro when it was not too crowded, so we could enjoy the beauty of the stations.Each station is a piece of art and interesting architecture. Mosaics, chandeliers, paintings, marble, all make Metro so impressive and beautiful. A guide told us the history of each station we visited and shared many urban legends about underground. We liked it very much.;5;January 25, 2014
Art in underground;Each station is a piece of art. We visited most beautiful stations with a tour guide, he showed us how to use subway with hints in signs of russian language. We returned again to stations, to have one more chance to enjoy the beauty of the most beautiful metro in the world!!!!;5;January 23, 2014
The best way to get around and see the old and new Moscow;By far the best thing that still exists from the communist days is the ornate Metro stations and super reliable trains. You could spend a week just admiring all of the stops on every line.;5;January 22, 2014
Great experience on the Metro;Please do not be apprehensive or nervous about using the Metro system in Moscow- it is very rewarding.Having done the taxi thing previously, the Metro was a revelation. I can't speak a word of Russian, but be sure to find a ticket machine as that is available in English.A map is essential to ensure you are heading in the right direction. Once on the Metro try to use the station names and locations to get your bearings in the city.;5;January 21, 2014
Moscow Metro;Do not expect a ticket for the journey you will be given a coin like disc to use. Very much like any other underground railway set up.;4;January 21, 2014
Don't be afraid;Even if you don't speak Russian, you should still give the Metro a try.  For less than 50 rubles, you can go anywhere.  The subway map has small English names under the russian ones, and these bi-lingual maps are EVERYWHERE, but the problem is, the stations themselves don't have any English on any signs, so you have to be careful to know when to get off.  The Russian words for "Exit" and "Entrance" look a lot alike to me, so it's worth it to take a look at those two words in Russian before going.  But, it's REAL RUSSIA down there, so don't be afraid to give it a try!;5;January 17, 2014
A great transportation system;Modern, fast, inexpensive and it covers most of Moscow.  I was impressed by the Moscow Metro and recommend it to travelers.;5;January 17, 2014
Very big metro !!!;Very big route of metro !!!Entire big moscow city is connected by metro !!!Wherever if you want to go within moscow, you can use this metro.It is preety cheap and faster than other transports !!!;5;January 16, 2014
Beautiful art at each stop;From our hotel, the National, we rode the full circle and ended up back at our hotel. I think it was the Brown line, ask at your hotel, that has the full circle with the pretty stops, each one different. Well worth the time but we spent 3 hours due to photo stops.;5;January 14, 2014
Confusing;I had read that the Moscow metro's are built like palaces and they are beautiful but I wasn't impressed at all. Considering Moscow is quite a big tourist destination, there is no information in English and non of the metro names/information/signs are in English. It is extremely confusing to get around by metro as you will most definitely get lost and no one will be able to help you out. What is impressive though is how underground the metro is located. the escalators going down to the trains are the longest I've ever seen. However, it would still advise you to figure out the metro system as it is the cheapest way to get around in Moscow.;2;January 13, 2014
Amazing. But, learn Cyrillic;Cyrillic is pretty quick and easy to learn, but it makes navigating the metro about 100000% easier. Well worth it to see this impressive feat of engineering.;5;January 12, 2014
Each metro station is a mini-museum!;Coming from Dubai, where mass transportation is a relatively new concept (the metro opened in 2009 and the stations are all modern structures!); taking the Moscow Metro was a different experience altogether!Firstly the depth of the stations leaves you in awe... On my first trip, I nearly fell off the escalator when I had a view off how deep it went.. when they mean underground Metro they do really mean UNDERGROUND! Most stations are 60-90 meters down, and can take anything between a minute to three on the escalators!Buying the Metro card is not a challenge, and while given the lack of direction board or signs in English, it might be scary but remember to mark the station nearest to your hotel on the "Cultural Map of Moscow", which also has a map of the metro on it. And ask your hotel front desk to advice you on which stations to get down at for tourist area that you intend to visit. Once you are at the station, just catch one of the teens, and point at the map and they will gladly guide you around which platform to go to. You can then count the no. of stations between your embarking station and disembarking station, and get off! And the best part: you do not need to buy individual cards if you are a group! Buy 20 / 40 / 60 trip card, and if say you are a couple, then tap the card twice to enter the station. There is no need to tap the card again at exit, so using one card for multiple users is acceptable norm. More details on pricing can be had from here: engl.mosmetro.ru/pages/page_0.php?id_page=8There is also a mobile app: Yandex.Metro which works brilliantly offline, so if you are at say near your hotel and tell it the station you want to go, it will tell you which station to get down at, and change lines, and so forth.Coming to the touristy part.. you can literally take the Metro to anywhere within Moscow: all I sat in a car in Moscow was for the to-and-fro trip to the airport, and nothing more.Moscow has done well to preserve it's history and maintain it's metro stations as is, even though some of them have been in existence from the 1930s and 40s, so do not rush through the stations and make time to stare in awe at the monuments that line the stations. If you book through the Moscow Greeters and ask them to take you around, they can even give you brief history of the most important stations. Separately, the Moscow Free Tour also runs a Metro tour, but I wasn't able to take it due to a tight itinerary.From a photographer's perspective, the central circle line is a must-do, and if you do it during off-peak, you can cover all the stations within under 60 mins or so. There is a lot of info around the forum on which other stations to do, and so I will not divulge further into it here.;5;January 11, 2014
Fun;I'm from Texas and was able to get around on the Moscow metro. If I can do it, so can you. The metro will save you time and money. I away amazed how fast you can get around using the metro. If you get lost, you only need to ask someone for help. It was an experience that I will not forget. When the doors to the train open, you better be prepared to exit quickly.;5;January 9, 2014
So worth visiting;We had fun travelling around on the metro in Moscow. Many stations have beautiful, unique designs and artworks, and it's worth spending time wandering around down there. The escalators are very steep and may seem daunting, but there is nothing to worry about. Travel on the metro is very efficient, and we always felt safe, even when we accidentally ended up there during rush hour!Be aware that there are no English signs, so make sure you know where you're going!;5;January 8, 2014
Subway staions or Museum stations;Just incredible.........................these stations remind you of walking through a museum in terms of the artwork, the fresco designs around the artwork and the bronze sculptures you will see in some stations. The designs are extravagant and beautiful built during the Stalin period. It is well worth the time to include this on anyones itinerary.  We strongly recommend you ask your guide to plan this visit. I also recommend you try to see the stations in a "quiet time" of day as during rush hour the number of people can be amazing. You will need to pay for entrance into the metro as does everyone else.;5;January 5, 2014
must see;We stopped at every stop just to admire the beautiful artwork in the subway system.  A must see in Moscow;5;January 4, 2014
Basic but good;Getting around Moscow, other than expensive taxis, you should use the Metro. Didn't use it at night as wasn't confident enough, same as in London you need to do it often.;4;January 3, 2014
The most beautiful;First when we rode the metro in Moscow we were scared of crowd inside. We honestly didn't want to use it again, but our guide offered to see beautiful stations. She took us on certain time when it wasn't so crowded. She knew when to take us there and what stations to show. That was an amazing experience. Our jaws fell down and we kept going with open mouths until our tour guide said : That's it. Stations are so beautiful that is impossible to describe them with words, better to see them.;5;January 3, 2014
surprising;My Russian father-in-law took my children and I around to visit the various subway stops.  They are like museums with beautiful art work at many of the stations.;5;January 2, 2014
Efficient and grand;Great way to navigate the city. All signs are Russian only so can be a little difficult, make sure your guide book has the Russian station names as well as the English as English names are no help here at all. Station are very spacious and grand looking with lots of marble and chandeliers. Cost is super cheap at just 30 rubels per journey.;3;January 2, 2014
Beautiful architecture;Very busy underground but absolutely beautiful, each station has a different theme we visited 5 and this was on Sunday. However I found it quite overwhelming much to busy for comfort. We were told keep our personnel belongings very close but not to worry to much as cameras cover all areas and there are police very near to hand should an incident occur.Beautiful but if you visit mid week be prepared for the crush, makes London underground a breeze.;5;December 31, 2013
Great experience and a good way to get around the city - don't be put off;The Moscow Metro is a great experience, the stations are stunning and it's a quick easy way to get around the city.  11 journeys were 300 roubles which is about £5.60 so an absolute bargain.  You can travel anywhere in city on each journey - there are no zones.All signs on the Metro are in Russian so make sure that your map has both the Russian and English station names.  Our first map on had the translations which wasn't much use.  The trains nearly all have an indicator showing which station is next so try to keep this in view.The Metro seems to be busy at all times of day and night so it can be abit intense and fast paced but we found that we wer just moved along in the crowd.  All the stations are spectacular and every one is different.  We found it interesting to google the station names to understand what it represented.;5;December 29, 2013
You will not be disappointed;You have to take a metro tour.  Don't forget to try to get a guide only because not every station is worth seeing but in general this is the prettiest metro in the world and worth taking a tour.;5;December 29, 2013
An experience;We use the subway all the time. We do have friends in Moscow who usually go with us. But with some training you can ride it without a Russian speaker ok.  The subway stops are beautiful - many of them! Art museums underground.    Some are very deep in the ground and were World War II bunkers.  Avoid rush hours - very crowded - also be careful of pickpockets. True in any huge city!;5;December 27, 2013
visit during off peak hour;We joint a metro tour offered by the city sightseeing bus. It was fantastic. It's worth to get a tour guide to show you some of the best stations around Moscow. One thing you have to pay attention tho is the time you travel. Our tour started at 4pm and it's the start of the peak hour. By the middle of our tour, it's very full on, it's people everywhere and since there's no English signs, it would only take a second to get lost in the massive station. Try to travel light when you're doing the metro tour coz there are many people at the stations. As you're busy taking photos it's easy to lost track of things.;4;December 26, 2013
Moscow Metro... a true gem;Moscow is one of my favourite cities in the world, so cosmopolitan, so alive. So much to see and do, old Arbat street is a must see attraction for tourists, many souvenir stands, although I recommend going to one of the many "farmer" markets to get better deals. Restaurants are expensive but for good, inexpensive eating , visit one of the "Moo Moo" restaurants, their cuisine is set up "buffet" style and you pay by the weight of the amount of food you take. The best free tourist attraction in Moscow is their Metro (Subway system) !! It is a miriade of interconnecting lines like a spider web, and you can be practically anywhere in the city within 45 min. Their stations are absolute works of art, from the Stalin years (Revolution Square stop is a fine example, ) To modern marble wonders (check out Park Pobede). You could spend days in the metro, plus it gives you are real taste of the Moscovites and their lifestyle.;5;December 26, 2013
Best way to get around Moscow;The stations are beautiful, the layout is easy to understand. Be mindful that all station names are in Kyrillic so you need to make sure you check the name of the station or have a map with both names on.;5;December 26, 2013
Very impressive & grand;Would recommend getting a ticket, there really cheap & hopping on & off at different stops! Was an experience in its self! It is unbelievably impressive! Its the same price if you stayed down there for the day too as it is a set price & isn't worked out in distance.;5;December 25, 2013
A must for any visitor to Moscow;It is interesting to observe the people in Moscow Metro. The vast majority of people get on and off the trains and continue walking very fast but a goodly number walks rather slowly, often with a camera in hand, and looking up at the ceilings of the station. The latter obviously being tourists who have never seen anything like it in their own country. Each station is different and is very attractive with different architecture and the theme of the internal decorations. The metro may be on reason to visit Moscow.;5;December 25, 2013
Gorgeous;Awestruck by the faded glory and statues within this deep, old metro.  Much history and beauty but be careful of pickpockets, they're always watching for tourists;5;December 21, 2013
Moscow Metro - world's 3rd highest passenger burden;Moscow moves between 8-9 million people a day on the Metro. What is great about it is that trains arrive between a minute and three minutes apart. They are full, certainly, but they are fast and frequent. Entrance to the system costs the same whether you travel one station or thirty stations. And yes, it's that big. You could travel 30 stations.  You could stay on it all day, especially because there is so much to see down there.If you travel the older sections, the stations are beautiful. You can get off and take photos and walk around and get back on. Do that on the brown circle line. Then go on line, find the oldest stations and plan a route. You can't get lost if you just mark where you started. Each station is very well signed. The entire system is very deep in the ground (there are two sections that are above ground, but they are the exception) so it's a moderate temperature compared to above ground.Take care of your wallet, of course, and prepare to be jostled, You can't eat or drink down there, or smoke, and there are no washrooms down there either. Enjoy the metro and get where you are going really quickly in Moscow.;5;December 21, 2013
Remarkably efficent;remarkably priced;The Moscow Metro provides extremely efficent travel around a very large and spread-out city.  Train frequency even during relatively off times is very good.  The 30 RUB. fare, just under $1 is one of the least expensive in Europe and much cheaper than those in North America, a real bargain.  Station names on all maps have been transliterated into Latin letters as well as the Cyrillic which is helpful.  There can be some confusion about station names however as stations with intersecting lines have different names (ie. a different one for each line).  A number of the stations ar architecturally  striking, some elegant, some museum pieces of Soviet kitsch.;5;December 20, 2013
Unusual Decor, worth seeing but difficult to navigate!;Before arriving in Moscow I had read some reviews on how interesting the metro stations are in terms of their décor, artwork and memorials that show so much of Russia's history.  It was great to see it for myself and how right the reviews were.  I visited several stations on one line and literally hopped off at the station, had a look around at the various long tunnels and then got back on the next train to hop off at the next station.  Fascinating work in art and frescoes and the like, and most certainly worthwhile for a visit.In my opinion, not as organized as metro's in other countries but perhaps that is based on the fact that I don't speak or read Russian.  The language being Cyrillic makes understanding where you are and where you are trying to get to a little difficult.  Perhaps it would have been easier had I done a little more research to that end.That aside a worthwhile visit, very cheap to ride and if you get a handle on the system you can get all around Moscow to your various destinations.;4;December 20, 2013
When in Moscow....;Our dash through the Metro was like being an extra in a James Bond film - incredible architecture and those chandeliers - a real must;5;December 20, 2013
One of the best systems in the world;We had heard that the subway was difficult but this was not true!  We couldn't believe how well this system runs! The only problem was that the systems stops at 2am.Even in Russian we had no trouble working out where we wanted to go and how to get there.Each station is different and there are some really wonderful sculptures etc. Don;t be afraid - its fun, easy, safe,quick, frequent and cheap!;5;December 18, 2013
Very Russian....;A real experience..... buy a ticket at the KACCI - ticket office- we bought 20 rides each and that lasted 4 days.  You hold you ticket on the right hand of the ticket barrier until the light goes green then go through.  The number of rides you have left shows on the barrier. The hardest thing to get used to is the Cirillic alphabet as your brain doesn't easily recognise or remember the names of places/stations. There are some good websites that talk you through it though so have a go :-) It is very convenient and a good way to get round.  Also worth visiting the stations that house some of the very impressive halls.  The most important thing when planning a journey is look at the end station of the line you want so you make sure you are travelling in the correct direction.  Go by the colour AND number of the line - some signs have numbers on but these are platform numbers and do not have any bearing on your journey :-0  Once on the platform there are signs on the walls showing you the journey on that track.  The station you are at is in red and its useful as under each of the other stations are the train lines that connect to that stop so that helps you know where you are. Have fun.;5;December 16, 2013
The Whole System is a Museum Itself;Nothing quite like it in Moscow, specially the Blue and Red lines were artistically designed during the revolution and depict stories. The Blue line has the deepest station in Moscow that was built as shelter in case of a nuclear war below the Victory Square. The whole system is so efficient that it is impossible for the city to function without it. A train arrives every 1:30 min on average and every 35 sec during rush hour travelling at 40-60kph. The system is one of the fastest in the world, bears historical value and modern day efficacy.;5;December 13, 2013
Hop on hop off and explore;The metro stations are exceptional. Nothing else quite like them. Buy a ticket and the adventure begins. To travel around is quite simple even though the station names are in cyrillic, the hop on hop off process is enjoyable and a lap of the stations can easily be planned. Trains arrive every fewminutes so there is not long delays waiting for the next train. Some of the chandeliers and statues are worthy of museums. Travel on the evening to avoid the crush. Do beware of Pickpockets in the metro.;5;December 12, 2013
A must visit in Moscow: Best subway in the world!;Better than  Mexico city...  Architecture of each station is stunning.  train every 2 min and cost 30c!  OK you have to decypher cyrillic naming but that is not too hard.  Also remember that same station may in some case have different names depending on lines.;5;December 10, 2013
Gallery ןמ Motion;Moscow's metro stations are memorials artistically decorated . Seen as a vitrine of the Soviet regime in his heydays . it is most recommended to reserve the time and  travel between the various stations . choose the stations in advance and build them into orbit. Most beautiful are the circular line and can be viewed using the HOP ON HOP OFF method.http://www.metro-in-moscow.com/moscow_metro.htmlI used this link to plan my tour BUT remember The principles of the Moscow metro signs should understand before entering1 - color code and the number of lines on maps no meaning in " real life "2 - The name of the platform and the station and it in russian onlyThat means no  problem in a regular station but Life gets difficult when you have to replace ..The solution is : When looking down at one platform signage (no color ) with the name of the line  . The transition is performed using tunnels (after you find it);4;December 10, 2013
Nothing else like it;I had always wanted to ride the Metro in Moscow.  It was fantastic and I visited about 12 to 15 metro stops.  Each was very different and amazing.  Make sure you find a day to travel the Metro and amaze at the wonders of the Russians.;5;December 8, 2013
Efficient with spectacular stations;One of the must see in Moscow, yet quite naturally on your sightseeing plan as the level of traffic in Moscow strongly discourage from using ground transport.;4;December 7, 2013
Moscow metro is the most beautiful metro in the world;Moscow metro is a must see place in Moscow! Every metro station in Moscow metro is different and very special. Many artists were working to create the design of stations. Most of the stations are built using very expensive minerals and materials.;5;December 7, 2013
across the big city;i think metro now is only way how to visit several places in the centrum of Moscow without many ours in the traffic jam! if you do not go there at active hours,you will enjoy more;4;December 5, 2013
Too big and difficult rides;The Moscow metro seems to be built as a showcase rather than convenient transportation. Once I had the stupidity of riding it to my hotel, and only then I found that not only the stations are too big for interchange of lines, but also built with a lot of not really necessary staircases (if to make it grander) so that it is not negotiable with luggage. The interesting thing is that inside stations there are porters with gears to help, at a cost, but I didn't use it as I do not speak Russian. Russia is great except many people may try to cheat you, especially taxi drivers (most unmetered) so I tried the metro, and regret it. You will find far more staircases to negotiate in a Moscow station than in London or Paris....;3;December 3, 2013
Who would have thought...;Hard to believe that the subway system and stops could be an attraction, but it's true.  You can easily see them on your own and cheaply too...  just buy a ticket and ride to a stop.  Get off the train to see the station w/o exiting the platform area and get on another train and repeat.  But our group happened to have a guide that explained some of the history, artwork and designs.  Best to see at night because of the lighting and to avoid the crowds.;5;December 3, 2013
History at every station, almost;The Moscow Subway has to be one of the most cultural one in the wrold giving the traveler a sense of the past and history while walking to the subway car. Many stations are deep, long and truly unique.;5;December 3, 2013
Every country needs this system;Longest we waited for a train was 2 mins 12 seconds, & you know how long you wait as they have signs over the tunnel showing how long since the last train left. In busy times, there may be 2 trains a minute. All this efficiency wrapped up in marble, beautiful statues, amazing ceilings, frescoes, the list goes on. So cheap too. The only drawback is that there is NO English translation, so if you haven't done your homework & learned some of the letters, you could come a cropper - you don't need much, just a few main letters. Have one of the tours around the system, then you'll learn so much more. Thought my camera might have a meltdown with all the photos I took - some of these stations are pure beauty.;5;November 30, 2013
it has its own charm out of all metro I have seeing so far;All stations have its own unique views and none of them repeating. Its so busy you cannot imagine, be fast there if you do not want to  be hit or elbowed;5;November 29, 2013
You must see that;Moscow Metro is one of the beautiful in the world, especially olldest stations such as Novoslobodskaya, Plotshad Revolutsii and others. But don't visit them in the rush hour. These days our metro is often overcrowded;5;November 28, 2013
Not too good attraction, but an excellent means of transportation;Worth to visit if you are specifically interested in underground transport. Otherwise not a big attraction.;4;November 28, 2013
Moscow Metro is worth for visiting.;Komsomolskaya, Mayakovskaya, Krasnye Vorota, Sokolniki, Lubyanka etc and the spirit of the seventies - Preobrazhenskaya Ploshad and ... recently builded new Mezhdunarodnaya, are really impressive places.;5;November 27, 2013
Avoid rush hours!;Moscow metro is truly unique and worth a visit, but it is strongly recommended not to visit metro system from 7 am to 10 am and from 5 pm to 8 pm during workdays.;5;November 27, 2013
Moscow Metro (Subway, Undeground);Some old stations (ab.1930 years) are real undeground Palaces! Mayakovskaya, Ploshad Revolutsii, Kolsomolskaya have to be visited.Some 2010 years stations (Slavyanskiy bulvar f.e.) are nice too.Some stations are terrible (Vikhino f.e.)!Visit at working time or at holidays only can be recommended.;5;November 27, 2013
Mayakovskaya, Aeroport. Kropotkinskaya, Revolution square;These four are more than enough. Unfortunately, moscow subway is not the nicest thing because of the dirt, crowd and noise. Be careful of police and any aggressive people. In any case of disturbance leave silently.;4;November 26, 2013
Not what you expect;Moscow metro is not like any other metro you have ever seen and I am referring to the underground in particular. The stations are like entering museum. Each station is decorated differently with art on the walls, my only advice is not to go during rush hour on work days the stations are packed and you will get knocked out of the way. But it really is a must see.;4;November 26, 2013
Moscow metro is like a museum;Moscow metro is beautiful when you talk about central stations. Have a look at Novoslobodskaya, Mayakovskaya, Teatralnaya, Ploschad' Revolutsii, Trubnaya, Sretenskaya. They make you feel. But be very careful about time for excursions. Avoid periods from 7 to 11 am and from 17 to 22 pm on work days. At this time the metro is quite overcrowded. You'd better have small maps of metro with station of interest to be marked out. This will help you to orient in metro. When you are changing the metro branch, the pointers will list names of stations in Russian + the color of the branch you are going to take. Cyrillic is not that difficult, but color would be enough;5;November 26, 2013
fabulous;This is not just a convinient way to move inside Moscow, this is a real museum and masterpiece.I love Mayakovskya, Okhotniy ryad, Belorusskaya, Komsomolskaya, Tcvetnoy bulvar and many others. This is one of the things that must do in Moscow.;5;November 26, 2013
An underground adventure;The moscow metro tour is a must do - in just two hours you get to see a bunch of wonderful paintings, murals and sculpture that were designed to show the strength of the soviet union. The guide was very knowledgeable of the sights and gave plenty of time for pictures. Beware it is a bit noisy but it is spotless - quite unlike most other metros around the world;5;November 25, 2013
Great Metro stops;A not to be missed experience. Allow enough time to visit several stations. Statues, tile displays, Chandeliers and Paintings are unbelievable.;5;November 25, 2013
The best from Soviet Moscow;Moscow is an anti historical city. Every leader has builded your own civilization started from destroy all ancient parts. Underground city still works, still lives by own sounds and pictures. Beautiful stations from terrible time, a smily young faces among black dummies. It's nice place to meet with Moscow, but better visit at weekend or around 9 PM.;5;November 25, 2013
run of the mill and vampish;True, new suburban clean and modernist styled stations get commissioned and those may appeal to a newcomer's interest. But the "classical" Moscow underground monsters look out of place curios - at best. What with "pathetic" partisan edifice at Byelorusskaya or wild eyed Lenin at Kievskaya and in fact elsewhere... or ridiculous depiction of "happy workers, farmers and intellectuals" under the wise leadership of The Party. As a muscovite I am never inspired by but rather ashamed of all the propaganda connotation involved where there's no place for just art for art's sake. Not least, metro is to me the place to exchange a negative charge while rubbing shoulders.... nay, pushing elbows with another. A sensitive foreigner may note people try to overtake each other as if leaving behind them a trail of that negative charge. Stuffy, smelly, inhibited the Moscow metro is to me.;2;November 25, 2013
They say Moscow subway is the most beautiful in the world;Its true. I've been to many places around the world, so its not the Moskovite talking in me. Its a definite must see. Don't be afraid you'll get lost. Just keep a map handy and follow the color coded signs. Most of the stations worth seeing are located inside the ring. If you look at the metro map, its the brown ring. Don't forget to take your camera with you so you will be able to brag to your friends!;5;November 25, 2013
Moscow Subway;Some stations are really beautiful and are interesting from historical point of view. I especially recommend those with mosaics (check your city guide) and the new and clean once. Buy the way, Moscow Metro is an easy way to get cheap and quickly to any tourist destination you would like to visit in Moscow. Avoid peak hours although, they are messy! Ticket cost is about $1.;4;November 25, 2013
Avoid rush-hours;It would be better to visit Moscow Metro from 10.30 am to 4.30 pm. The best stations are (IMHO): Kievskaya, Smolenskaya, Ploschad Revolutsii and Novoslobodskaya.;3;November 25, 2013
Both beautiful and usefil;If you are staying in Moscow for a couple of days or a week you most probably will not need to use metro - walking is the best way to know the city. But find a couple of hours late in the evening(it is not crowded as during the day) to see the most wonderful underground stations of the metro. Start with the "circular" line - it follows the streets or the Garden Ring, that will take about an hour. Be sure to see the first line - from Gorky Park (Парк Культуры) to Sokolniki (Сокольники). I'm sure you'll love it!;5;November 25, 2013
must see;Its a good museum of soviet architecture. Most beatiful stations in circle lane. First place in moscow walking=);5;November 25, 2013
Really great subway system;Get there in the late evening, when there is low amount of people - and you will be very pleased of what you see - beautiful architecture, individual on every station... Sometimes you are thrown into the past of russian history, sometimes you get to modern style. But anyway, it is worth much more than $1 that you will pay to get into there!:);5;November 25, 2013
Awesome!;Metro stations in Moscow are different to one another. some are exceptionally beautiful with carvings and designs of a palace. gets extremely crowded during office hours (7-10 am & 4-7 pm). Beys way to travel in Moscow if you want to be somewhere on  time. it is so much better than using the road which are incredibly congested with traffic. First it is a bit scary. everything was only in Russian and only indication was colors for metro routes but now they are making it more traveler friendly with English signs and color signs and directions on the floor. costs 30 rubles per travel.;4;November 25, 2013
An amazing underground museum - beautiful statuary and much more;Fast, efficient, sometimes crowded, but always a treat . .. like stepping back to 1935-1945 Stalin era.  The brown line (circle line) has the most interesting and elaborate metro stations,  When friends visit from USA, we spend half a day just exploring the metro.  Now a person can purchase a 60-ride pass for 1200 rubles - good for 45 days. . . about 63 cents per entry, or a single ticket for 30 rubles (just under $1.)  What a deal!!;5;November 25, 2013
Functional monument;We lived in Moscow for two years and used metro often! For everyone who visits Moscow it is a must see! This is THE most beautiful metro in the world!;5;November 25, 2013
Learn cyrillic;Very efficient, safe and clean. But do not expect any English place names. Make sure you know your line and destination before venturing below ground, or find a friendly Moscovite who speaks English for help (we had to!);4;November 25, 2013
Awesome!;We took the brown line and got off at a couple of stations just to make pictures. Every station is different but so beautiful! At first it is a bit scary to use the metro, but after using it one time you get used to it and it is an excellent way to travel through Moscow.;5;November 24, 2013
Must see and best way to get around;The metro stations in Moscow were designed to be the palaces of the people- so you can imagine how incredible they are just to admire!They are also the best way to beat traffic. As long as you study the metro map and know the stations you need to get to- just count the stops in between- the signs are mainly in cyrilic- take pictures of the station names you depart from along the ride to make it easier to remember them- and then back track your way back.;5;November 23, 2013
A museum in itself;Most of the stations of the brown/circle line are worth a visit.  If you are travelling to marvel at the stations, do so during mid morning, afternoon or later in the evening to avoid the masses of people using the metro.  This way you can enjoy the surroundings without worrying about queuing for the next train, which run every couple of minutes or less than one minute during the busiest times.;5;November 23, 2013
Art monument;The stations are just something. Really wonderfull constructions and monuments. The real problem is the language, at least while I was there, there were no written information on other language, just russian  (cyrilic alphabet) which if you don´t know is just impossible to understand.;4;November 22, 2013
Like an underground museam;Wow what a place. Every stop is like a separate gallery in a museum. For non Russian speakers it can be challenging working out where you are and where you are going. But it is worth the challenge. Some stations are massive and the shock of leaving the warm caverns of the metro and stepping out into a bitter cold winter day can be an experience in itself.;5;November 21, 2013
Must be seen to be believed;The Moscow Metro is by far one of the most confusing things i have ever born witness to. Certain stations are absolute works of art, evoking the feel of entering a grand museum. Others make you wish that the creaky old subway cars would arrive as soon  as possible. We spent quite a bit of time in the Metro (if you visit Moscow, you will too) and my love/hate relationship with it continued the whole stay. You will quickly learn the ways of the locals, otherwise you will be run over by the many many commuters. In the end, the Metro simply must be experienced first hand, as any description of it fails to truly do it justice;4;November 20, 2013
A Must See!;One of the deepest underground metro in the world!The stations look like art galleries in honor of the ancient communist regime.;5;November 20, 2013
Attention;The metros station are very beautiful and for sure are the best way to go around Moscow, but can be really difficult to go on the metros. The names are not familliar to the ones that does not speak/understand the language, people are always in a rush so the push you, in the mornigs or afternoons the metros are so so full of people.You got to make sure you know all the stops you are supposed to go out and all the exits/line you need to go. I recommend google and right down everything, since russian people are not that friendly and helpful.;3;November 19, 2013
Must see tourist attraction;When I was reading the travel guides on Moscow I was surprised to read that the metro was considered a tourist attraction.  I have used the metro in a number of cities in the United States and Europe and would not consider them as must-see when visiting.  However, the metro in Moscow is truly worth the visit.  They are a little more difficult to maneuver than St. Petersburg so if you can take a tour, I would suggest that.  They are clean and very reliable and it sure beats using busses and taxis.  We missed one train that was leaving and within a couple minutes another one arrived.  The level of detail in the metro, chandeliers, mosaics, sculptures is truly magnificent.  Two tips in travelling the metro in Moscow.  The first one is to get a good map that has numbers on it not just colors.  We realized this on our last day there.  Some of the colors are hard to differentiate so look for the number that is associated with the color and follow the signs that have that number.  It is much easier.  The other tip is pick pockets.  You will be warned about them as you travel and most people are on their guard but we definitely seen a number of them lurking in the metro stations.  When you are walking be observant of the people around you.  If you see the same people waiting to board the same car as you, move to another one.;5;November 18, 2013
You won´t believe your eyes;The metro in Moscow is just incredible. Each station blows your mind. It´s worth taking one morning and just riding the metro to appreciate the arcades, the chandeliers, the sculptures.... it´s extraordinary. Not very well signaled however... it´s a bit complicated to even know which station you are at... it´s the Russian way, as we call it!!;5;November 18, 2013
Moscow Metro - peoples palaces;Must do trip. Get on the brown circle line and get off at each stop. every station different and DEFINITELY worth seeing.;5;November 17, 2013
Worth seeing one station;we were taken by our tour guide along the metro for about 5 of the best stations.... some are the most decorative I have ever seen..... some have stained glass windows in, and large chandeliers... some of the stations are very deep and you seem to be on the stairs a long time...... if you have a fear I would suggest not going down.;5;November 16, 2013
Most Beautiful Metro in the World;Moscow's Metro is amazing. Mostly Art Deco style- each station is different with beautiful statues, mosaics, artworks and lighting including chandeliers. When exiting the train on some platforms it feels nothing like a metro- more like a building foyer.  9 million people use the metro a day - so for sightseeing its best to avoid peak hour. All signage is in Russian - and once you get the hang of how the ring line works it's great. Don't forget to buy your return tokens to save joining the queue multiple times and it you have the right money and indicate how many you need - your on your way in no time.;5;November 16, 2013
Fascinating but confusing if you don't speak Russian!;The Moscow Metro is quite beautiful. The stations are works of art in themselves and with chandeliers hanging from the ceilings above the trains, it is quite unlike any other in the world.However... a word of caution. You can buy your ticket in English at the machines in the stations. After that, there isn't a word that isn't in Russian. So, go armed with a good Metro Map and study the cyrillic letters of the stations you want. Otherwise it's not easy unless you are a Russian speaker.;4;November 15, 2013
Only practical way to get around Moscow;Clean, modern & efficient. Fairly easy to use, inexpensive-only a few have "beautiful" decorations, but still interesting. Watch & do as the Russians do. Plan ahead-take a few maps with you (copies off internet in color) with English/Russian Metro names. Work out where you want to go (the day before) by connecting the stations and make a list of the Russian station names to check as you travel through the Metro. Trains go one direction and come/go every few minutes-very easy. The only difficulty I had was selecting the appropriate exit as most stations had four in different directions. A street map with Russian names would be helpful, as were the locals.;4;November 15, 2013
Outstanding;There are beautiful metro stations. It's like a gallery of Communist art and history, with statues, marble columns, mosaics, chandeliers, art-deco architecture...;5;November 13, 2013
Brilliant once you get the hang of it;Worth buying a number of trips - you get a single card and just 'show it' to the entrance turnstile and a number lights up to show you how many journey's you have left.  Really good idea to understand the Cyrillic alphabet too;4;November 13, 2013
Metro Magnificent!;I love the Moscow metro, beautiful stations filled with statues, mosaics, paintings and just great architecture. best way to travel around Moscow as its also quick and reasonably priced.;5;November 13, 2013
Amazing;Each metro station is different than the other, and many seems like piece of art. If you have to move in Moscow, do not think about other transportation!;5;November 7, 2013
Impressive;Apart from the wonderfully decorated palace like stations everyone knows about, the Metro system is quite impressive. It is really huge, cheap and takes you everywhere. Get the written name of the stations you will use in Cyrillic, (there are very few signs in latin script) then just compare the first letters in your station name with the signs and you'll be fine doing transfers.;5;November 7, 2013
Cheap interesting tour;Only 30 rubles for one journey. ..stay on and see the different tube stations...all very different. Dont do a tour at rush hours.;5;November 6, 2013
Moscow, Russia Metro Transportation;If you have ever been in any of the subway lines in the USA, say in New York City for example, then you might be surprised your first trip on the Metro (subway) system in Moscow, Russia. These underground stations contain art, statues, etc and are decorated very nicely! It is easy to move about the city using this form of transportation. Clean and safe!;4;November 6, 2013
Mother Russia at its best;History at every stop and a different theme/ country focus. Less than $2 for 90 minutes just cruising the circle line is probably the cheapest thing you can do in Moscow and it is like the Tardis, bigger on the inside and a journey in space and time. Shame there are no English translations of what you are looking at.Remember to rub the dogs nose.;5;November 3, 2013
Step Back In Time;Amazingly well preserved, the decor of the Moscow Metro takes the traveller back to the 1930s. Hop on and off at the most historic stations, and marvel at the sheer grandeur of the architecture. Definately worth an hour or two underground if it's raining above. (Avoid hectic rush-hours though!);4;November 2, 2013
One of the More Interesting Metros;Although Moscow's metro system (the trains in particular) is rather outdated, it has some of the most interesting and attractive stations I have seen throughout Europe and North America. Done in various styles and periods of architecture, some include or are themselves fabulous works of art.  That said the system seems efficient and provides an excellent way to get around this very large, spread-out city.;4;November 1, 2013
Moscow metro stations, magnificent;We had taken a one day tour of Moscow and the guide had told us that some of the metro stations were worth a visit.We chose to do it on our own because the guide was expensive.  In the hotel, the concierge told us which of the stations were worth a visit and gave us a map of the metro.  Warning-do not go into the metro without a map and a rudimentary knowledge of how the system works.  The day before we took our station tour we found ourselves totally lost and it was only due to the good Muscovite's that helped us even though they spoke almost no English and we speak no Russian, that we were able to get back to our hotel.  But it took us about two hours.  However the second time, with a map and understanding how it works it was easy.There are several stations that are a must.  We cannot recall the names but several of them are in one line.  They are magnificent and we would say that after the Kremlin, this was the 2nd best thing we visited in Moscow, particularly on a cost basis since it only cost 90 US cents, to do it.;5;October 31, 2013
Travelling in museum;You need to see the many beautiful stations, even if you have no other reason to take the Metro. It is a great and efficient system highlighted by the most beautiful stations in the world.;5;October 31, 2013
awesome metro;No tourist to Moscow should miss the Metro. It is unique and awesome. Makes all other major city Metros second class and pedestrian;5;October 31, 2013
I need to know Russian language;The metro service itself is good: frequent trains, stations are clean. It is surly the fastest and more comfortable transport in Moscow.The problem is that if you can't read russian, than you will have a very hard time getting around. Not even the sign "exit" is in double language;3;October 31, 2013
Impressive!;Probably the most interesting in the world! One ticket is 30 rubles and you can stay on all day if you want. Each station has its own character from statues of Lenin to signs of communism. Trains are frequent (every minute!) and incredibly busy. As we found out, if you are separated e.g. doors closing and leaving someone on the platform, you can be joined again with a couple of minutes.;5;October 31, 2013
Good but station names are confusing!;Excellent metro system, trains very 2 minutes.Station names all look the same to me though, so had to count the amount of stops to get off.;4;October 29, 2013
Not only a way of transportation;The Moscow Metro is now only a way of transportation. It is also art: some stations are absolutely fabulous. First of all, let the car in the garage: the traffic is chaotic and the metro is great. The pieces of art in stations such as the Krasnaya Ploshchad and the Partizanskaya (to name only two) are fantastic.Some old compositions make you feel like you are in the USSR.Some lunatic/drunk people might make you a little shy, but no problem. Some of them can even help you - in Russian, of course.Oh, and almost all the stations have only cyrillic alphabet, so get ready. It's not that tough.Highly recommended!;5;October 28, 2013
A surprise at each station;We were going to do a tour of the Moscow metro and had the stations we wanted to visit. However, we found it more fun experiencing each station as we travelled around the city to different sites (when we weren't walking).You can get off st any station and not have a clue what to expect! Each station is so different to the next. I found myself loosing track if where I was as I was too busy looking st the platforms!!!Fantastic to go around the stations and I liked the surprise at each one!;4;October 28, 2013
Easy to use;Well worth getting of each station and seeing the art work, decoration etc as each station is different and unique.;5;October 27, 2013
Gorgeous metro stations;This was a very beautiful attraction in Moscow - mosaics, ceramics, paintings and sculptures were throughout the stations and it was both clean and fast. As the Russians are going through a period of removing all of the communist symbols throughout the country, I was really glad that I was able to see these symbolic pieces decorating the stations. I would recommend going sooner rather than later so you don't miss out on this part of Russia!;5;October 27, 2013
The most unique sight in the city;No other city can consider its metro system as a landmark of in its own right! Every station is so iconic and unique, a statement of ostentation and Soviet propaganda.You'll need to dedicate half a day traveling underground and visit the 10-12 most beautiful stations (check your guide book or on the internet).;5;October 27, 2013
Easier than expected;I'd read lots of things warning about how the metro was difficult for those new to Moscow and who didn't speak Russian.  So as two non-Russian speakers with no knowledge of the Russian alphabet coming to Russia for the first time we wondered how we'd manage.  In practice we had no problems at all,  we just had a little phone app with a bi-lingual map of the metro,  and together with counting a few stops and taking tome to match up the russian names we found the Metro easy to use.  Tickets were easy yo get just by holding up the right number of fingers for the number of tickets we wanted.  OK it was crowded,  but so's the transport in any major city.  What did stand out was the architecture,  watching the rush hour crowds surge through tunnels with ornate chandeliers was certainly something different.;4;October 27, 2013
Great History Underground;I was looking forward to discover the famed underground metro of Moscow.It was better than expected.Modern in some places, traditional in some, artistic in most other.However two negative points for a tourist on a weeks visit1. No signs in english2. Station names not written in the side when the doors of the wagon open.So it was necessary to ask co-passangers twice and keep remembering the number of stops to the required destination.Plus pointsIn one ticket you can keep travelling the metro and exploring the stations to your heart fill~ till my camera battery died...;4;October 27, 2013
1st Time I ever photographed metro stations!;Chandeliers, stained glass, ceramics, stucco work, mosaics, paintings - wow!  I knew the Moscow metro stations were beautiful but I didn't unexpected such a variety of artistic sales and designs. Don't miss the Moscow metro1;5;October 26, 2013
Moscow Underground;The Moscow subway is not to be missed.  If you get a map it is impossible to get lost even if like us you do not speak a word of Russian.  We made a list of the stations we were interested in seeing and hit them all...sort of like a mini bucket list.  It was great!!  And it was immaculate...very clean!!;5;October 26, 2013
Amazing art;If you visit Moscow, be sure you stop on as much metro station as possible. Every station is like a gallery. Incredible historical stories in underground halls, luxury art details, fantastic experience where you least expect it. And above all it is mostly done during World War II, so it gives you clear picture of Russia in that period of time in its all power and glory.;5;October 25, 2013
Beatyful metro;Old but function well and really fast, every minits next metro run and almous all station are so beatiful and full of detelies,find good metromap(in English) and do not run,be carefull and you manage;4;October 25, 2013
Reliable, and always worth it;It always takes you there (and those few million others), without it Moscow wouldn't work, and it's always great to see new stations!;4;October 24, 2013
Beautiful Stations;Stations, especially on the Circle Line, are amazingly beautiful.  One advisory though – Traveling with luggage is a bit of a hassle as stairs must be navigated (little in the way of ramps etc.);4;October 24, 2013
Masterpiece stations all over the way...;Don't miss the stations that are especially on the Ring line, some of them are really amazing. Comes to my mind Krasnopresnenskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Mayakovskaya, Dostoyevskaya & Prospekt Mira stations.;4;October 24, 2013
For history, convenience and cheap transportation, ride the metro!;The Moscow Metro is amazing. Built during WWII, each station is full of art and often a work of art itself. This is also the cheapest, fastest way to get around Moscow. Each station has its own particular theme and history.But know that the metro is usually very busy and crowded and frenetic. Also, all of the signs are in Russian and maps (on the walls) are few and far between. Also know that the bigger stations have escalators but some do not and all of them have stairs to get to the escalators!;4;October 23, 2013
From point A to point B (via many sub-points);Reputed for its Soviet-style décor, the Moscow Metro has such deafening noise, over-rapid openings and closings of doors and crush of commuters/users, that one is truly glad when one finally leaves the stations!Moreover, unlike the metro system in St. Petersburg, the Moscow metro does not have any signage in Latin, thus before setting on a journey one has to very very carefully study the maps and stops so that one does not get lost;  but inevitably one does, and then it becomes a journey of frustration!Fortunately there were passengers who helped; and the non-English speaking women manning the ticket offices were models of patience and smiles.;3;October 23, 2013
Great stations and great way to move around;The metro system in Moscow is fantastic, you can get anywhere, anytime. The trains are always on time and over rush hour they seem to show up every other minute. Once you figure out the alphabet, it's easy to move around. Stopping in several of the larger stations is worth it just to see the decor.;5;October 23, 2013
Super-good;Probably the only thing that you would be thanking Stalin for before coming back. The station are deeeeeep and most of them look like museums. The trains arrive almost one behind the other.;5;October 22, 2013
The cheapest and safest way to get around the city;Metro is awesome.  However you need a metro map to navagate around if you are new to the city.  There is very few English word on any signs.  You may need metro map in Russian and English versions, which you can obtain on-line.  It seems like there is no metro map at the metro station.There are 11 metro line and everything is in Russian.  The best way to get around is to count the number of stop you need to travel.Some metro lines are always packed, so be prepared if you need to ride many stops.;4;October 21, 2013
Surprisingly Beautiful;Not to be missed. These metro stations are decorated with beautiful ceilings, columns, mosaic work, paintings and one had even gilded work on the ceiling. You can see all the metro stations with a single ticket for 30 roubles, remember not to exit the station till you are done! Very economical!;5;October 21, 2013
More than transportation;Visit some of the metro stops which have artwork, crystal,chandeliers, fancy ,moldings, decorated ceilings and marble columns. The system works well, is easy to use and economical. We used Metro to get around for several days in Moscow.;4;October 20, 2013
Beyond your imagination.;The selected stations were fabulous - chandeliers, fabulous mosaics, stained glass windows and spotlessly clean. Don"t miss them - and very cheap as you can see all the relevant stations with a cheap metro ticket - no additional cost.;5;October 20, 2013
Excellent Metro;I in Moscow and got the metro from a station near Sheremetyevo to near the Bolshoi .The carriages were crowded but fast trip. I liked the decorated stations in the centre of the city.I was helped with directions by a man from Chelyabinsk and even though I can read Russian a little I had to be careful to remember the stations on the metro and the line.;5;October 19, 2013
Unlike any other Metro system in the world...;The Moscow Metro spans almost the entire Russian capital.  In total, the Moscow Metro has 278.8 km of route length, 12 lines and 172 stations.  On a normal weekday it carries 8.2 million passengers.  This state-owned enterprise was built by Stalin and was opened in 1935 as part of the government's plan to  transform Moscow into the world's capital of Communism.  Our favorite station was Mayakovskaya, which has art deco styling and 34 ceiling mosaics depicting "24 Hours in the Land of the Soviets."  You can buy an inexpensive Metro guidebook which can help you navigate your way around and also decide which stations you would like to visit.;5;October 19, 2013
more than just a train ride;super efficient, cheap, mass transit. Cathedrals to human spirit and aspiration; operatic n scale. Spend an afternoon getting on/off trains on the orbital line 5 (brown) to discover stations of mind boggling splendour and inspiration. Uncle Joe gave Moscow something to be proud of. Kievskaya is a visual delight. Navigating the system is tons of fun - get the app downloaded to your smart phone. It's a gem.;5;October 18, 2013
Each station is a museum;We traveled to several different stations and lines, each had its own form of beautiful art (stained glass, mosaic, sculpture. etc). If you don't leave the station you can do the tour for the price of a single ride.Our travel was during the middle of the afternoon and it was really busy, but we always were able to get on the next train. Just stay out of the way of the locals while you do your sightseeing and photos!;5;October 17, 2013
Moscow Metro;Wow! Is all one can say about the Moscow Metro - totally graffiti free. Every station has it's own unique motif / décor. Some have mosaics, some have statues, some have stained glass, etc. Glad we went with a guide as we would never have found our way to the "best" stations or our way back. Nothing is written in English and cannot easily figure out what words mean as in other languages. A whirl wind tour not to be missed!;5;October 17, 2013
Moscow Metro;amazing system 30 rubles $0.92 US buys a ticket for one fare which  could encompass the whole system the trains are extremely fast  8 minutes between  trains  and  very clean  The   seats  are parallel to the car axis which makes for easy seating the stations are attractively appointed with chandeliers art works mosaics and highly polished marble floors the only drawback it that there is a small window of time to enter the car before the doors slam shut and the car is off to the next  we traveled in the evening when there was less people but I felt safe at all times the Russian system Akers DC metro look like  horse and buggy thinking we had a guide but other people used a map since they couldn't read the Russian charactersh. Also we were impressed by the world's longest escalatorP;5;October 16, 2013
Unlike any subway stations I've ever seen!;Over 7 million people use the Moscow Metro everyday as a welcome alternative to the horrific Moscow traffic.  The trains are clean and run on time.  Young men customarily give up their seats to ladies!The Metro stations are a tourist attraction unto themselves.  The bronze statues, the stunning murals, the chandeliers, and the cleanliness are amazing.  The escalators are the longest I've ever seen - probably 3 stories high/long.Worth a visit even if you don't take the grain.;5;October 16, 2013
efficient but not pleasant;This was an efficient way to get around and the maps in each station are also in English but I found it difficult to find within the station where specific trains were & locals also had a hard time guiding. Some of the stations a quite beautiful but the escalators (the tallest I've ever seen, anywhere) look very old (tripping on one of these would be absolutely horrific)  as do the metro trains them selves. Also there seemed to be no wheelchair or stroller access what so ever.;3;October 16, 2013
We felt very safe.;At almost every station you'll see two or three (young) police officers walking together. Safety was a concern of ours when we booked a trip to Russia but that was never an issue. I grew up in NYC and am very familiar with the subway system. The Metro system was VERY effecient and the trains seemed to run every five minutes which is a lot more than in NYC. Some of the Metro stations have some incredible arcitecture so be sure to take a tour of The Metro (like we did) so you gain some knowledge and appreciation for it.;5;October 15, 2013
Very cool way to move around Moscow - and gorgeous, too!;Yes, you won't be able to read the signage but get your hotel to write down what the sign looks like, etc, and you'll be fine. It's the best way to get around town -- the trains come along nearly non-stop, the stations and trains are spotless, and the amazing and varied decorations by station are not to be missed.;5;October 15, 2013
Interesting;We were taken on guided tour of the metro in Moscow. First impression was that it was scrupulously clean despite the millions of people using it. Each station is uniquely decorated with a different theme. I'm not that into trains and their stations but I can appreciate that in it's day it would have set the world on it's ear and set a standard that many still can't obtain even today. It's a critical part of Moscow's history so a must see. There are quite a few stairs to contend with so don't leave it to the end of the day when you are tired of being on your feet. We rode a few trains but never came across a 'modern' one, they all seemed farily old.;4;October 15, 2013
Noisy but good;Bad news--they are noisy.  Nearly everything is in Russian, so look for directions in color &/or number for your line, then ask the person in the little cubicle at the bottom of the escalator about which track to use.  Don't get confused that all track signs are in blue.  Good news--the subways come almost every two minutes or so.;4;October 14, 2013
The best way to travel during high traffic;High traffic in Moscow is most of the time, so the Metro is the fastest and most efficient way to get around.  It has beautiful architecture and is fast to get on and off.  The only trouble is that there are not many information booths for those who speak English, so the map is very important to travel.  Get plenty of information before you travel as to which stops to take and you'll do fine.  Very good service.;4;October 14, 2013
No visit is complete without a trip on the metro;he subways stations are ornately decorated, illustrating Soviet life. Well lit, spacious and the subway trains arrive every minute or 2 - we could learn from that. he only way to travel in Moscow;5;October 14, 2013
Artistic and efficient;You've got to see the Moscow Metro.  Besides being efficient, nearly 9 million riders take advantage it on a daily basis, the Underground is beautifully decorated with chandeliers, artwork, statues, etc everywhere.  It's quite an experience.;5;October 14, 2013
What a Ride;It was a real experience. Took the subway all over the city. Was awesome ride down a huge escalator, very steep. There were several levels of subway and the cars were well kept and maintained. Also very Russian. The artwork and decor very upbeat and a pleasure to see. Typical non-emotional people riding as I suppose everyone knew we were westerners. I ran into one lady and apologized in English and she tried to put out a smile, very difficult for her. Forget how much it costs. Not much. One time only, no plans to go back, but still a memorable experience.;5;October 14, 2013
Moscow metro;The metro is very efficient.  We never waited more than about 3 minutes for any train.  The subway terminals were all clean and some were beautifully decorated with lovely light fixtures, sculptures, and artwork.  The escalators were longer and faster than most US escalators and all seemed to be in working order.  We rode the subway every day and, once you can figure out the Russian language signage, it was amazingly easy to get around.  there seemed to be no air conditioning on the train cars and people kept the windows open to provide fresh air.  This was comfortable enough, but made for a very noisy ride. The only suggestion I could make is to include other languages on the signage in the terminals and add air conditioning to the train cars.;4;October 14, 2013
Moscow metro;You need to read Russian leters, but it is easy to ride, cheap and the fastest I ever riden!!! Tre stations are amazing.;4;October 14, 2013
Not quite sure why all the fuss.;Pretty, yes. Clean, absolutely. But for the rest of it, a bit over rated if you ask me. BTW, its so clean because it's illegal to eat or drink in the subway. Just so you know...;3;October 14, 2013
Majestic Metro Stations;It is definitely worthed to visit Moscow and St. Petersburg Metro station. Make sure to go on rush hour at 8 or9AM and you will see the real Russian crowd.;5;October 14, 2013
Efficient, clean and cheap;Effiicient, clean and cheap and some subway stations are really great examples of architecture.In a day of traveling I found only three graffiti.;5;October 13, 2013
Clean, Cheap and Efficient;Note that signs are in Russian only so get a map and ask some young people to make sure you are on the right platform.;4;October 12, 2013
Almost a Free Day Out;Spend 60 pence (the price for entrance at any station, and all you pay if you stay underground, however many journeys you take) and take your camera out for a tour of the Moscow metro station art & architecture.    If you have limited time head for the Brown circular line and visit each stop in turn from Krasnopresnenskya through to Komsomolskya.    Don't forget to look up into the ceiling rounders too!;5;October 11, 2013
Unexpected Enjoyment;I take the subways in New York, Chicago (elevated lines), and London and really never to look at my surroundings.  They are invariably utilitarian and are a means to get me from place to place.  I saw the Moscow subway stations, or at least some of them, during a recent trip to Russia and before I got there, I had known that I'd be touring them.  So, I thought, what's the big deal?  A subway station is a subway station, right?  Wrong!  The stations I saw were virtual works of art, albeit made during the Communist regime and for a different purpose. But today, they stand out as artistic works in their own right.  If you can ignore the politics and focus on the artistic merit of the stations as well as the differences among them, you'd want to travel the entire system to see an underground art museum.  In fairness, I only saw a half-dozen stations, but if the rest of the Communist era stations are like the ones I saw, I'd risk getting lost underground until rescued by a bilingual speaker!  Tip: go with a guide who is both fluent in Russian and knows the system.  There are many, many subway lines, and all the maps and instructions are in Russian.  You can indeed be lost in the system.;5;October 11, 2013
A palace for the proletariat;It sounds odd, I suppose, but one of the very best attractions to visit in Moscow are the Metro stops. They're decorated with beautiful reliefs on the ceilings, crystal chandeliers, extraordinary artwork, and comfortable benches. Get on the train and just get off to explore. Almost every stop has underground shopping, as well.I believe these were commissioned by Stalin and he wanted to give his people, when he wasn't busy slaughtering them, a place that had a sense of opulence, and on that account, he succeeded.;5;October 10, 2013
you must use the Moscow metro;The Moscow metro is really neat.  We used it to get to the Leningratsy Train station and we also took a tour of the metro.  Some of the stations are incredible.  Also, it is only 30 rubles for as long as you want to stay on the metro...you can ride the whole system!;5;October 10, 2013
Marvelous Metro Stations;We spent 3 days in Moscow, Russia as part of our Waterways of the Czars River Cruise. A ride in the city's metro is a must for anyone visiting this capital city of 13 million people. Although we could only visited a few of the many metro stations in the system, the ones we visited were the prettiest I have ever seen.  One of the most famous stations is Mayakovskaya on the Zamaskvoretskaya Line.  If we visit Moscow again, more visits to the metro stations will be in our plan.;5;October 10, 2013
Excellent - once you get used to it;Do a group tour first to understand how it works, after that, the system is fantastic, cheap and reliable.;5;October 9, 2013
Beautiful Station;We visited a few stations and the most modern one was Park Pobedy with all the bright and shiny marble; Kievskaya Station had the beautiful and traditional look of the past and we took a lovely group photo in front of the big wall painting at one end of the Station.  The last one was Revolution Square with a large number of statutes.;4;October 9, 2013
Should definitely be seen!!;The Moscow metro has some beautiful stations in the city center but if you use it to travel just a few stops outside of center, they are pretty basic and you would be wise to learn or at least recognize Cyrillic. The stations are deep and the escalators take a few minutes, not made for quick hops, but they are fascinating. The metro is also inexpensive and you can purchase single tickets or a card of multiple rides. Some trains have an electronic display which shows the next stop. Next stops are also announced on your train from the current station so if you can't read Cyrillic or don't speak Russian, pay attention. You can always download a metro map app for offline use and the locals seem to welcome the opportunity to help. Find your metro line by number, follow it, then on the platform pick which direction you want to take. The upcoming stations will be listed either on signs above you or on the wall. Most signs are in Cyrillic but some, more modern signs also have the Latin spelling. Rush hour is very busy but the off times are good for taking in the artistry of the several central stations.;3;October 9, 2013
moscow metro;the metro stations are really worth a visit they are so interesting and spotlessly clean. there are loads of lovely statues etc.;5;October 9, 2013
Impressive yet very confusing!!;It's an experience in Moscow metro, we do travel a lot but found this more confusing then anywhere else....even Japan. The locals just grunt at you in your need help but the security guys speak little English but understand pointing. Good experience but be prepared and download a metro map....yep don't bother with that...the names are totally different to the ones you download.There are NO lifts just the longest escalators plus stairs so beware if you are dragging suitcases....its like a Survivor challenge but fun!!;4;October 9, 2013
Beautiful and clean. On time. No tagging;Best transport alternative to taxi. Easy to use and understand.If  time to spare it is worthwhile to try the best stations preferably with a guide or local.Some of the stations are great tourist/cultural attractions. One hour is enough to see the best stations. It is great to see that a big city can keep their underground like this.;5;October 8, 2013
Never seen an underground like it.;A must see the station decoration is amazing. With statues art work and Russian propaganda every where.;4;October 8, 2013
Interesting Stations;We were taken on a tour of the most spectacular metro stations one Sunday afternoon, which was the best time as they are usually so busy on other days. The walls and often the ceilings were lavishly decorated with murals and motifs relating to the Soviet era. Some were mosaics with scenes to encourage the workers using the metro. They were all clean and well worth a visit.For travelling from A to B they are easy to use and cheap, once you know where you are going!;4;October 8, 2013
The Station Borovitskaya is a must!;If you go to Moscow don't take any cab, go only with the Metropolitan, it is the best way to move. Download the APP called Metropolitan and buy 11 tickets. You can move fast, secure and enjoy some of the most impressive Metro stations around the world. A special one is the Borovitskaya where you have Bronze Statues (Strike the one with the dog, it shall bring you good luck).;5;October 8, 2013
An experience;Like other people have said on their reviews, the metro system is a must see and it is the fastest and cheapest way to travel around Moscow.It can be very busy and sometimes it feels like a free for all in the busier stations but you get used to this.Some people will barge through you if you get in their way.The stations are like works of art and they are many different ones to admire.If you are able I would study the stations where you need to go and mark it on a map or app before you go to make it easier because it can get confusing.We were given a map by our hotel which wasn't much good.Every station on the map had two different names which didn't help matters and because it was small you couldn't tell which stations were which because of all the different names that were cramped together so we did get off at the wrong station a few times.All in all though we are glad we went on this great engineering feat.Do not miss it.;4;October 8, 2013
Outstanding Architecture;It was a short visit and we have time to go only in three or four stations but the impression was huge.The architecture is most of the time unique the stations are clean and the frequency of the train really impressive: you do not wait more than three minutes from one train to the other, and in no time you are from the suburbs to downtown.;4;October 8, 2013
Its an Nightmare!!!;I can never understand how a tourist will manage to get through the right train to travel! Complicated and swore never wanted to try a second ride. Saint Petersburg metro is much easier to understand the route.;2;October 8, 2013
Perfectly Timed;If you are a Westerner, do not be intimidated by the Metro. It is easy to navigate and understand. It is very fast and reliable. I only used a taxi once over 3 days. The stations are easy to figure out even though I cannot read any Russian. There are no English signs, and that is no problem.;5;October 8, 2013
Thimpressive metro stations.;The most impressive metro stations.Very high level architecture, traffic flows continuously and the visit was fascinating.Specially designed stations and station looks different;5;October 8, 2013
Cheap and fast travel!;We stayed in a hotel which was 5 stations away from the Kremlin, we found it very convenient to travel by the Metro which was pretty straightforward. None of the stations had any signs in English but if you know beforehand where you needed to go, it's easy. If you are not sure, approach any young commuter and they will direct you. We found the older Russians not very helpful! The stations are very beautiful, I was clicking away at every opportunity I got! In Moscow it only costs 30 Rubles per trip and 28 Rubles in  St.Petersburg.;5;October 8, 2013
Excellent metro;It is worth learning some cirilic as this made getting around easy. Some stations have stunning artwork and marble and it is highly efficient.;5;October 8, 2013
Amazing metro;A must see while in Moscow is the metro system . The city goes underground and the tourist is awed at the beauty of each different station , the precision of the enormous system , the cleanliness and especially the politeness and grace of the Muscovites. I recommend reading up on the different stations (on line) before setting out but there are also different companies which give tours for pay. Set aside plenty of time to see the stations...we bought one round trip ticket and spent an entire afternoon riding through the different stations.;5;October 8, 2013
Metro Station or Art Gallery;I went with a tour to Moscow and when I saw a visit to the Moscow Metro was part of the tourprogram I was surprised.The Inner circle of Moscow Metro stations are each an art gallery and worth visiting.The Moscow Metro is different from other  European countries metro .For transportation it is fast ,cheap ,very frequent and an efficient way to not get stuck in Moscow traffic.;5;October 8, 2013
Beautiful stations!;Moscow's metro stations are amazing, especially the older ones.  They are very deep underground (folks with claustrophobia beware!)  The trains run very frequently and are an efficient way to traverse Moscow.  Don't be in too much of a hurry though, step aside (so as not to get run over!), and look up and around.  There are mosaics in the ceilings of some, porcelain wall decorations in others, bronze statues in at least one, and beautiful floors in many stations!  Although I was warned about pickpockets on the metro, I didn't have a problem.  Tickets can be bought at every station, you can either buy single rides or multiples, and once you are "in", you can ride all day on the same ticket if you'd like! One thing to be aware of is that sometimes there are several stations linked, and by following the signs (red line, green line, etc) up and down a number of staircases or escalators, you can find yourself in a different station without having set foot on a train.  This can be very handy when changing directions, but confusing if you didn't know you were leaving one station to go to the next!;5;October 7, 2013
Efficient, cheap and safe;Although it may look daunting initially as nothing is written in latin letters, get a map or download an app which has the western writing. You can then plan by comparing the words on the map and signs in the stations. What's the worst that can happen if you go the wrong way? You get off at the first station and go back! Very cheap - 30 rubles per trip (around UK 60p). Fantastic decorations, paintings and statues to see in some of the older stations. Don't get a taxi and sit in the Moscow traffic - use this.;4;October 7, 2013
Incredible;The metro system is cheap and really fast. It's usually not very crowded either, and the stations are bright and with very nice artwork! The only problem was that sometimes you had to walk very far when changing trains.;5;October 6, 2013
Not your everyday subway system;Having grown up taking trains in New York City, nothing prepared me for the Moscow Metro.  The are always crowded, the trains come every three minutes, and all stops are three minutes apart.  With the unbearable traffic of Moscow, it is the only way to navigate the city.  However, beyond the efficiency, are the stations themselves.  First, they are all immaculately clean.  But, what makes them a tourist attraction is the beauty of all the stations.  Each station is different, but the common denominator is the art.  They all have high arched ceilings.  They have beautiful mosaics, paintings and statues.  Each station has its own theme.  We visited them with a guide, so each station was explained to us. But even on your own, do not miss this.;4;October 6, 2013
Another must see;Catch the subway and get out and admire the decoration and art work at various stations - just make sure you have good directions to know where you are at unless you have a Russian speaking person with you to provide directions.;5;October 6, 2013
Stunning;Every station is different and once you've mastered it it's the best way to get around... Download the app... It's been a life saver as it's in both Russian and english;5;October 6, 2013
Not your subway system in the States (thank goodness);This is something I had heard about and really wanted to do.  I am so glad that I did.  Our guide took us around to various lines and stops.  She warned us before we started not to be courteous, but to get on and off quickly.  I should have listened to that advice.  Be warned, those doors slam shut hard and fast...and yes, it hurt.  The various styles of art at the different stops was just amazing,  I saw Art Deco, mosaics, statues, stained glass...just to name a few.  Spend some time, get on and off trying the different lines.;5;October 5, 2013
Worth a visit;Some of the stations on the Metro are beautifully decorated.  The chandeliers and art work are a very unexpected find.  Definitely worht looking at.;5;October 4, 2013
Unbelievable Experience;The Moscow Metro is unbelievably busy and quite an experience.  While in Moscow you have to experience the system 9 Million people use daily.....;5;October 3, 2013
Do not Leave Moscow without Heading To the Met......;Hear say extolling the Moscow Met do not do sufficient justice to the place until one is physically present to marvel at the amazing work of Art in each and every of the stations there. Do not leave for home without heading to the Met to see and believe.....;5;October 3, 2013
Unbelieveable...;I had heard for many years how spectacular the Moscow Metro was.. from my wife in particular who visited it in 1978... but it is hard to describe the Metro as an attraction as it moves 6 million people a day in a city of 12 million.  It was not only a work of art, but very clean.  When on the train, young people got up and offered seats to seniors (they can tell by my grey hair) and women.  Worth the dollar or so to ride... once underground you can travel throught out the city on one ticket... BUT  you need someone who is savy in the lanuage to mark on a map how many stops you go etc... to get to a certain point... no other lanuage is displayed;4;October 2, 2013
Underground Museum;Spend a day in the metro and see as many train stations as you can. The art on the stations is something you cannot miss.;5;October 2, 2013
Fantastic;I recommend not leaving Moscow before seeing the Metro.  Each station seems to have its own theme which adds to its appeal.;5;October 2, 2013
know before you go;There is nothing in English on the metro system.  You must know where you are going before you go or else you will get lost. Our hotel concierge told us where to get off but had we not had any direction who knows where we would have ended up. Most people in Moscow do not speak english. I learned how to say the numbers so I was able to buy us metro tickets. Like most metro systems it's easy to use but just have to know where you are going.;3;October 1, 2013
the best;it has 11 lines and lots of connection stops. you can easily and fast go everywhere you like. headway between trains is 2 minutes. decoration of each station is different and very nice. you can spend some hours to travel between all of the stations specially on circle line and visit the amazing architecture.;5;October 1, 2013
Not just a transport system!;A londoner by birth i am accustomed to the Underground (Tube) which I still regard as the simplest way to travel around central London. But the Moscow Metro is in a completely different class. Clean, spacious and full of art. Stations are decorated according to the theme of the name, and have a wide range of art to do so - love the statues of the dogs, whose noses are polished smooth by travellers rubbing them for luck! You could spend all day on the Metro touring the sights, and, given the fare regimen - you pay to get into the system, regardless of journey it is not expensive.;5;September 30, 2013
A fabulous experience!;Within the Garden Ring traffic is heavy, and if you want a taxi you will end up negotiating a price each time, and enduring a long journey.We used the Metro every day and evening  – it’s a quick and easy way of getting around Moscow.It’s clean, cheap, efficient and safe – and sometimes confusing, but you get used to it very quickly.Purchase your ticket at the KACCA Finger sign language is the best way to order your tickets!There’s a price list posted in the window by the cashier. You can obtain tickets for 1, 2, 5, 11, 20 or 60 rides.We chose the 11 rides for 300 roubles (September 2013).It’s easier to purchase one ticket – two of you can share a ticket Just hand the card back to the next person and let them come through.Hold your card near the sensor on the card reader.When the red light changes to a green number go through the gate. The green displayed number tells you how many more rides you have left on your card. Once you have arrived at your destination station, simply get off the train and look for the white sign (often on the platform floor) to find the exit or look for the sign Выход в Город or just follow the crowd! We frequently used the dark blue line – Kievskaya, Arbatskaya and Ploschad Revolutsii were all worth a stop (stunning architecture).Trains are frequent (often only a minute between each one) – just hop off, take a photograph (no problem) and hop back on!Enjoy the Metro – we loved the whole experience!;5;September 30, 2013
Great Experience;On arriving at the metro, it was amazing to travel so far down on the long escalators, we were fortunate enough to have a tour guide, so I never found it daunting, the stations have some beautiful chandeliers, and it is a wonderful opportunity to go back in time and imagine how many years ago this was used, the stations are spotless, and certainly worth the experience, and a well priced form of transport to get around.;5;September 29, 2013
great way to travel!;Can be intimidating at first but with plenty of pre planning (we printed a decent sized copy of the metro map before we left the UK) travel on he metro soon becomes second nature & the staff are soon quick to assist if you are looking a bit lost or perplexed. Lines are colour coded and the trains run like clockwork. Young people on the trains always give up their seat for ederly travellers, now that's not something you often see at home.As well as being a quick & cheap way of travelling there is the added bonus of seeing some beautiful station architecture at some of the city centre stations, all this for 30 rps a journey.;5;September 29, 2013
the most beautiful metro in the world;Fast, efficient and beautiful.Just print a map from Internet or get one in your hotel. It's easy and safe to use.;5;September 29, 2013
Learn to use the Metro, you'll be free as a bird;I have travelled the Metro many times when visiting Moscow.  It can be daunting at first, especially if there are a group of you with luggage during rush hour.  Stalin got this right although its difficult to lug luggage up and down some of the stairways.  However, many have escalators but you will always need to climb some stairs.  Beware of idiots trying to help, I struck this bloke with a hand cart but he could not pull it up the stairs.  There are others however who will assist and are genuine.  The metro is so cheap, less than one dollar per trip, it is fast, regular and ruthlessly efficient thanks to Stalin.  It takes a bit of figuring out but well worth the time to do it, you can go anywhere fast, the traffic jams in Moscow are horrendous and a taxi should only be taken if the Metro is not going such as in the middle of the night to the airport.Hints for trouble free metro travel are as follows;Get a map, this should be the first thing you do when you get to MoscowThe first time you take the metro, you'll probably have luggage but then you should spend a few hours on it without any luggage, check out the fancy stations, you will see some beautiful architecture and learn your way aroundTalk to your hotel reception and plan out your tripTalk to people on the train, they will help, always have your map with youKnow the line number and the colour and the lines and colours of any transfersCount the stops, keep checking the stops Good travelling;5;September 28, 2013
The most amazing metro we have been in;The metro is a bit intimidating at first. We found all the staff that we encountered very helpful. The first rule is use only the Cyrillic script. Plan out your trip ahead of time noting the next stop in the direction you wish to go. Count the stops to the location you wish to depart the train. If you need to change lines this is also easy. In each station there are signs above the hall that tell which way to go to get to the next colour line. Concentrate only on this. In a lot of cases the direction you need to go is also on the floor near the escalators. Once you get to the next colour line then check to see which side of the station takes you the direction you want to go. We never once got lost or had to backtrack having missed a station. We also found the people very polite. We were never pushed or shoved even when it is very busy. You will be amazed at how they move so many people. A wonderful way to see Moscow. Such beautiful stations.;5;September 28, 2013
the highlight of any moscow visit;i followed the route laid out by a fellow traveller from TA and it was great.it takes quite a while but metro's so cheap that you can just get out, do something else and the get inside again.should be done on a saturday or a sunday.in fact, my perfect rainy sunday would go like this: get up early, do some metro station hopping, tretyakov museum, some more metro station hopping, novy tretyakov, some more metro... you got the gist of it.take advantage of the fact that the metro will probably leave you close to your hotel and that it closes so late.;5;September 27, 2013
London eat yer heart out!;Pristine clean with stations that are cathedrals. Its simply the finest & safest underground in the world & I have seen all of them.;5;September 27, 2013
Most interesting metro encountered;The Moscow metro turned out to be an unexpected pleasure of our visit.i) Every stationed had a unique facade.ii) it wasn't easy learning to navigate a subway that only had everything written in Cyrillic, but we managed to learn after the 1st day - it was quite an adventure.An efficient system though intimidating especially during rushhour.;4;September 27, 2013
Fast, efficient and very grand;The vaunted Moscow subway stations live up to their reputation. The subway runs very frequently, usually less than every two minutes. They're very deep underground (though not as deep as St. Petersburg) with long escalators. Not for people with handicaps. In fact, Moscow is not hospitable for people with handicaps in general.;5;September 27, 2013
Underground museums!;We took a tour of the metro and were amazed by the amount of people at all hours. We saw numerous stations that resembled museums with art work, mosaics, and statuary.This is a great thing to do first in Moscow to learn the system and how to get around which is not easy at first.Definitely worth taking this tour!;5;September 27, 2013
Chandeliers and stained glass;Make a tour of the Metro a must do for your trip to Moscow. Jump on the circle line and get off at all the stops in the central zone, so many amazing stations lie under the city. Chandeliers, mosaics, stained glass and statues can be found in most.;5;September 27, 2013
Plain, straight-forward commuting;There are beautiful Moscow metro stations. I saw one with some astounding decorations commemorating the great Patriotic War. My "local" was plain and unadorned, however. The system is efficient and (to my utter amazement) the staff were helpful and friendly (though unable to speak English)! The carriages are basic and functional - but the train does what it sets out to do, so no complaints there. Get used to the physical depth of the stations!;4;September 26, 2013
Who would have thought;Who would have thought that the metro would have been so fascinating? You can do it on your own (very well marked) or if you're pressed for time go on a tour. The architecture of the  stations was incredible with vaulted ceilings, art, mosaics, art deco theme, life size sculptures.;5;September 26, 2013
Work of art;A lot of Metro in Moscow and every single Metro is a work of art. They said all Russian life, activities, culture and custom.;5;September 26, 2013
"Just amazing";Think the London Underground is good! you've seen nothing yet until you visit the Moscow Metro the paintings, sculpture and architecture are truly amazing. Once you master the signage it's easy the trains are fast, clean and cheap we travelled all over even to the outer suburbs mostly out of peak time. Try it you won't be disappointed a wonderful experience.;5;September 26, 2013
Unlike any other train station;Certainly worth seeing, the paintings and sculpture are amazing. You must visit out of peak hours otherwise extremly busy;5;September 24, 2013
Cool travelling;I did a small tour to a number of the stations. The architecture is varied and very special. For those who enjoy something a little different this is a must see feature of Moscow.;5;September 24, 2013
Easy Moscow transport;Well serviced rail system.  Stations alone are worth visiting to see the decorations and architecture.  Clean and easy to navigate.;4;September 23, 2013
Impressive;The décor is great; unfortunately for a tourist travelling round you have no clue as to what station you are at as they do not have the station names displayed so you can read them - just a small sign in the middle.;4;September 23, 2013
Past century's artistry, breathtaking!;The Moscow tube is marvelous - the high-blown art in the stations is amazing, and the long long escalators are like a theme park ride. For actual navigation, they're not so easy to figure out if you don't read Cyrillic, but people here are helpful and you will get where you need to eventually. I'd say it's a must visit, not at rush hour though, it tends to get pretty crowded. I highly recommend stopping by the Mayakovskaya station, it's one of the most appreciated, check out the photo.;5;September 23, 2013
The most beautiful stations;I know many metro/turbes and Moscow hás the most beautiful stations i ever seen. The most incredible fact is metro is relatevily new when compared to the other citeis in Europe but still full of history.;5;September 22, 2013
best ride in town!;The Moscow Metro is a blast - the high-blown art in the stations is amazing, and the long long escalators are like a theme park ride.  For actual navigation, they're not so easy to figure out if you don't read Cyrillic, but people here are helpful and you will get where you need to eventually.;5;September 21, 2013
Good to see but in travel to somewhere;Well made and maintained soviet propaganda.Definitely beats other countries metro stations. But not overwhelming enough, to keep as specific tour and go up and down on crowded escalators and loud noisy overcrowded trains.Especially with the elderly or children.Good to see on your way to somewhere as will also avoid the massive traffic almost always present. Check photos to see first and decide accordingly which station art will be appreciated more by you.;4;September 21, 2013
Do Not Miss!;My husband & I went on a River Cruise in Russia, and before we left a friend recommended to take the Subway Tour.  I thought it was a silly thing to do.  They didn't tell us anything about it, so it was a complete surprise. You MUST take the tour at night.  What an experience!  First, walk quickly...even the escalators move fast.  The beauty underground is amazing. Each station is different, unique, and a complete wonder.  If you also like to people watch, you will find it a treasure trove.  To end up in Red Square at night is incredible.  What an experience in interesting and diverse city.  (Notice that Russian people do not smile.) Oh and always have change for bathrooms!  They have few facilities, and they will chase you if you don't pay the lady!;5;September 20, 2013
Moscow Metro;There is no doubt that the Moscow Metro is the most spectacular underground that I have seen.  The paintings are are truly beautiful.  Look like they belong in a cathedral.;4;September 20, 2013
Fabulous subway system;Our tour director took us on a subway ride stopping at several stations. Each is unique filled with chandeliers, marble statues, and wonderful construction.  It is something not to miss and give the tourist a glimpse of daily life.;5;September 19, 2013
Unique;Loved the sculptures of soldiers and were lit up with chandeliers!The metro  was one one the steepest I have seen ,much lower than the London one....;4;September 19, 2013
A story in every station;Better with a good guide. Most are tributes to the proletariat. From an engineering point of view, quite a feat. Unusually clean. Shelters from German shelling during WWII, very far below ground.;4;September 19, 2013
A little scary on your own;Tried to have a look on our own but was a little daunting. Trains whooshing and people racing - very busy metro. Stay away at rush hour - you will get trampled! I suggest a guided tour - the hop on hop off company has one - to ensure you don't get lost. Unless you speak Russian of course...The metros we did see were rich with art and very extravagant. Once we found a guide to tell us what we were looking at it was even better...;3;September 19, 2013
Subway -- don't miss this!;Take a very fast escalator to the subway...  what a pleasant surprise.  And then enter the stations, where each station is a history of the country and their art.  Not to be missed.  We have taken subways in many countries, and none match this experience.  Be prepared for fast moving trains, quick entry and departures, and a lot of eye-opening experiences.;5;September 18, 2013
Wow;The Russian underground is like walkong through an art gallery.Murals on the walls,fine architecture,clean well kept stations.We were amazed by the beauty underground Such depth!!!;5;September 18, 2013
Try it!;It is daunting at first!  However, take a bit of time and you will be rewarded by seeing the most spectacular stations.  Allow yourself time to appreciate it all.  The easiest way is to go on the brown circle line and then work out the interchange stations from there.  Rush hour is horrendous, so try not to travel at this time, although it may seem busy all the time!  Difficult to see the names of the stations when you are sitting on the train, so if you are on a train with no line/stations indicator, then count the number of stations until your destination! Best stations are Mayakovskaya, Prospekt Mira, Park Kultury, Novoslobodskaya + many others.  Enjoy them, but just don't panic!;4;September 18, 2013
Moscow Metro Tour;I found this tour when booking the Moscow Free Tour.  You pay for this but it is a great tour to go on (the price includes travelling on the metro)Although you can visit all the metro stations yourself having someone show you round these amazing stations and tell you stories about the Moscow Metro  system was fascinating.  Our tour guide was great, she was informative and engaging and made the experience fun.The tour was just over an hour and a half and you get to visit around 8 amazing beautiful stations.  Even if you don't use the system to get around Moscow it is worth doing this tour on the metro just to see the stations themselves.;5;September 18, 2013
Art and Subway Stations;It helps to read and understand Russian if you plan to use the subway.  But even if you don't plan to use the subway as a means of transportation, it is worth while to visit one or two stations just to see the art work, the chandeliers, the sculptures and the cleanliness.  It is also a remarkably efficient transport system and by far the easiest way to get from place to place in Moscow where taxis or buses can sit still in traffic for ear interminable amounts o time.;4;September 17, 2013
One of a kind...;Our tour group did a Metro run for 30-40 minutes through various stations...the Metro system is very efficient and timely.  But the station stops were beautiful, artistic fashioned and totally cool!  it was a very nice one hour visit to a fabulous Metro system!;5;September 17, 2013
Best metro in the world;Moscow metro is divine. It's chic and probably the best in the world. Trains go very ofter, but full of people. Especially in the evening. Plan your visit on a weekend or try using it in the day time. Komsomolskaya and Belorusskaya stations are must-see.;5;September 17, 2013
The best metro system we have seen !;On our visit to Moscow we used the metro intensively and it wonderful.The trains are  fast, clean and run every 2-3 minute like a Swiss clock ! it provides service to almost any where you need to go !many of the stations are works of art and it's amazing to see them as backgrounds to the mass transit !the long escalator rides are a chance to peak at the faces of the general population.As most stations don't have any English and it often necessary to change trains it is important to plan your trip, before you startEven if you don't use the system to get to your sights - it is worth a trip on the metro just to see the stations themselves !It is fantastically cheap way to get around;5;September 17, 2013
Visually stunning, and also cheap;What a gem! The stations are marvellous, just a joy to see them. Service is quick, efficient and ferquent. Prices are very cheap. Our only complaint is that signs and announcements are all in Russian, which we understand since it is Russia, but makes it difficult for us non-russians;5;September 16, 2013
Take your own tour;My husband and I, Metro map in hand, spent part of an afternoon visiting the "palaces of the people," the many stations Stalin had decorated in various styles. It was kind of like a treasure hunt and great fun.The Metro's cleanliness and efficiency is amazing, as is the sheer number of people using it any time of the day or night. I felt it gave us a glimpse of how the Moscovites lived that part of their lives and it was great for people watching.;5;September 16, 2013
A Destination in Itself;I could spend the day stopping at each station and just walking around. The best time to go is on the weekend when the traffic is not so heavy. The outlying stops are pretty ordinary but the ones around the city center should not be missed. The lighting fixtures are also beautiful and unique to each station. For about 30 rubles you could ride all day.;4;September 15, 2013
Must see for anyone interested in architecture;I was literally astonished by the beauty of Moscow Metro. Almost all stations in wider Moscow center are wonderfully designed. You can spend hours just by going around and watching all details.Definitely worth it! For the price of the ticket (less than 1 USD), you get one of the best interior / industrial designs in the world.You can see photos of some stations on my blog: www.lovetravelfly.com/russia/moscow-metro-design/;5;September 14, 2013
Definitely worth a visit!;There are very beautiful underground or subway stations in Moscow. I live in Moscow all my life and I'm sure that they are definitely worth a visit. Of course, not every station is unique. Almost all Moscow metro looks ordinary. If you want to see something special, you should go to one of next stations: Ploschad revolyutsii, Mayakovskaya, Belorusskaya, Aeroport, Novoslobodskaya... But in no case do not go to the metro at rush hour on weekdays. There are too many people going to work. Better to go there on a weekend morning.;4;September 13, 2013
Love the Moscow Metro;So easy to use once you get the hang of it - the station are stunning.  save some photo room on your phone or camera for all of the amazing stations.;5;September 13, 2013
It's a subway and a museum - all for just a dollar;Moscow's Metro system dates back to the 1930's and is well worth your time when visiting the city.  Not only is it inexpensive (about $1/ride) and a fast way to get around, but some of the stations are museum-like in both architecture and artwork.  There is a lot of marble, mosaics, chandeliers, stained glass and brass statues.  The Metro map is similar to London's, but a bit more difficult to navigate because of the Cyrillic alphabet.  Definitely worth a ride!;5;September 12, 2013
great experience!;First of all the Moscow Metro deserves all the praise we had heard and read. What a truly smooth and efficient system! Never waited more than 3-4 minutes (at the most) for the next train. Price is absolutely reasonable, the system covered everything we needed ... and some of the stations are beautiful. Stunning, even. Clean, safe and an experience in themselves. But make sure to have a double metro map ... in Russian and in English. Most signs in the metro are ONLY in Russian, so count on spending the first couple of rides making sure that you are going in the right direction and know how your destination station is spelled in Russian. Have fun ... it's a great experience!;5;September 12, 2013
A fun and challenging activity on its own;Visiting the metro stations and taking the metro trains is a fun and challenging activity on its own, especially if you don't know the Russian language. Trying to recognise the Russian alphabets is fun and it's better to bring a layout plan of the metro system with you, preferably in Russian.  Then you may easily navigate through the metro network and at the same time appreciate the beautiful designs of each station.;5;September 12, 2013
Transportation and Architecture;Moscow Metro is one of the best, in my opinion. Navigating on it is really easy and metro is cheap, fast and frequent. But not only that - a lot of the station are like small museums. Made of marble with different statues and inscriptions and it's really pretty. Also, for a metro it's surprisingly clean.;5;September 11, 2013
The only way to get around Moscow;The metro is clearly laid out and relatively easy to use. They sell tickets for multiple trips, and it is cheap. Moscow is so congested it is hard to understand how you'd get around on surface streets there.;4;September 10, 2013
Master Pieces;Its really. The moscow stations are the master pieces. You can visit a really museum only whith trips in moscow metro.;5;September 10, 2013
A mix;I took the red line yesterday from Lubyanka to Park Kultury and found quite unremarkable stations on trains older than the 50's rolling stock in Budapest.  Today however I was “guided” onto the blue, circle and 9 and found the most amazing underground cathedrals that offered help to the proletariat.  In short, fantastic chandeliers, frescos, mosaics and “sovi bling”, a total treat.;4;September 9, 2013
Cheap and mostly cheerful;Fare is 30 rubles (60p)anywhere on the system. Trains are old but some stations are gems of architecture and statues. Tickets can be bought for multiple journeys, though no discounts until you get past 15 journeys (IIRC) Smart cards can be bought for days travel etc. Metro operates -06:00 to about 0100;5;September 9, 2013
great metro tour;What a great view of russian metro stations.I travelled with guide who supplied me information about stations.Taking photo is a great experince.One has too get in and get down at various stations at short intervals.its a very exciting experience.;5;September 9, 2013
Easier than you think;We had heard stories about the Metro but just go for it. Before we went we didn't understand anything Russian but stick with it, its easier than you think;4;September 9, 2013
A bit tired and grubby;When I travelled on the famous Metro about 20 years ago it was amazing: huge glittering chandeliers and wonderful mosaics. Now it could do with a lick of paint, and the allegorical statues of various forms of labour, dating from the Soviet period, are a bit dismal really. There is a nice bronze dog whose head you pat for luck, & the colour has almost worn away from the constant attention.;4;September 8, 2013
One of the best attractions in Moscow;Great way to spend a day in Moscow, for next to nothing. It's a good idea to plan which stations you want to view ahead of time and writing them down it russian.;4;September 8, 2013
Very interesting;Went on a night tour which included going on the metro.  The stations we stopped at were lovely and having someone to tell you all about them was great. Do not know any of the language so really glad I went on the tour, would not have understood any of the stations or known where I was only by perhaps counting as went along.  Not as easy as I expected it would have been to travel on here but many people from our group managed it OK,;4;September 8, 2013
Train Ride;I loved the sculptures of the workers throughout the stations and also the murals on the walls.  The chandeliers were beautiful as well.  It was amazing being underground and not feeling crowded in.  Beautiful cathedral ceilings.;5;September 8, 2013
The only way to get around Moscow!!!!;About 10 years ago I gave up trying to get around Moscow by vehicle.  Drivers for the day can't find a place to park and you can't find them after your meeting.  Taxis are almost unavailable and in either case Moscow traffic is so heavy it is impossible to get to meetings on time.   The Metro is completely predictable.  Trains come at least once every 2 minutes.  There is more information now in English in the station but it is important to do a lot of preparation.   You must have with you a map in both English and Russian of the metro system.   I have not seen a printable map that is actually readable that has both languages.   You must have a Russian map of where you need to go which you can get from Google maps.  Most metro stations have many exits and unless you know the street names in Russian, you will have no idea which exit to take nor will you know where you are when you eventually find your way to street level.  Moscow's metro stations are often hundreds of feet underground and the distance between different exits and entrances can be measured in 100s of meters.;5;September 8, 2013
A work of art;The metro is an absolute must. Before you go google the Russian alphabet and write down how you pronounce each letter. This makes navigating the metro a doodle. You get into the station, follow the signs for the line you want, then you have a choice of 2 platforms. You look at how your station should be written, the first few letters will do, then bingo you go in that direction. We were staying near Smolenskaya which begins with CMO....The stations on the circle line are worth a look out. Arbat is a great station.;5;September 7, 2013
A Great Ride & Best Way To Get Around Moscow;While the tour books warn of pickpockets and all the signs are in Cyrillic, we found the Moscow subway to be relatively easy to navigate.   Be sure to get a map or maps with English and Cyrillic names of stations, available on the website, and ask for help if needed.    Tickets are sold a variety of ways including per ride and you can just ask for the number of rides you need by holding up your fingers at the ticket both.   There are also ticket machines.  Moscow traffic can be brutal, so the Metro is the best way to get around the city and many stations are tourist sites in their own right.;5;September 7, 2013
Transit palaces and a really effective system!;We did a tour of the metro stations and loved it. The Soviet government made such a big investment in making these stations into showpieces. We liked Revolutskiy station the best, with its 64 bronze statues. Several stations had mosaic tableaux on their ceilings. The Metro system itself is very extensive, cheap, and easy to use, but it is almost always somewhat crowded and occasionally extremely crowded.;5;September 7, 2013
Interesting!!;Make sure you have a map showing the old Russian vocabulary as word recognition is the only way to find the right station. However at 60p an anywhere ride is excellent value although don't expect to get a seat.;5;September 7, 2013
A unique experience;Beautifully-decorated metro stations that enable one to ignore the hustle and bustle of underground stations and enjoy the fascinating beauty of stained glass, granite and marble sculptures, paintings, etc.;5;September 6, 2013
Moscow Metro;A fascinating experience and one not to be missed.The system is comprehensive and impressive - the platform areas are vast and palatial (those on the circle line - line 5 - are especially ornate), trains are long and very, very frequent, in spite of substantial carrying capacity they are usually quite crowded. Buying cards preloaded with a number of journeys (2,5,10,20 etc.) equates to a cost of about 50p. It is useful to be able to read the Cyrilliic characters for the names of the stations but since the trains are so frequent there is often another train waiting on the other side of the platform obscuring the name which is engraved on the wall behind the train. It is probably more useful (especially in the first few days) to know the number of stops to your destination and to count them! I looked forward to using the metro!! To leave the station or to transfer to a different line it would be helpful to recognise the words 'vykod' and 'perekod' in Cyrillic characters, the first for exit, the second for interchange. At an interchange the lines are colour coded as well as numbered so can be followed fairly easily but remember (unless you are interchanging on the circle line) the name of the station will change as you change lines - even though it is at the same location. Having successfully arrived at the platforms you need to know which one to use to board the train - again it is useful to recognise the name of your destination station in Cyrillic letters. The stops are listed on suspended boards to the left and right hand platforms - if you know how many stops your journey will be, you can count down that many stops to find your station and select the correct platform. Don't be rushed by the approach of a train, search the lists carefully, there will be another train along in no time at all!;5;September 6, 2013
Station as a museum;In the Moscow subway a lot of obsolete equipment. But the interiors of the stations amaze by its splendor.;3;September 5, 2013
This Metro System is Very Fast and Frequent;We were in Moscow for 10 days and took the Metro nearly every day.  We were surprised how one train came right after the last one - maybe, one minute a part on most occasions.  The signs are hard to read if you do not read the Russian alphabet, but we studied the map carefully and were able to figure out where to get off and get on.  It was a great way to get around town.;4;September 4, 2013
Moscow Subway (Metro);Simple layout, information available at every step, safe, fast, comfortable, covers city well, comparatively inexpensive. Does get really crowded during rush hours.;5;September 4, 2013
Gorgeous;This is definitely worth a visit whilst you are in Moscow, the stations are all beautifully decorated. Forget the dark and dingy London Underground, the Moscow Metro is like a collection of underground palaces. Of course some are more beautiful than others. Tip: Visit several of them at a time, if you don't leave the metro between them then it only costs you one ticket, not several;5;September 4, 2013
Moscow metro;By all means, take the Moscow metro night tour (by day it's a madhouse of people) and see the wonderful "Peoples Palaces" ordered by Stalin.  They are wonderfully designed and clean. You could do it yourself, probably, but the writing is in Cyrillic and it's difficult to figure out where you are.  Tip:  if you know your station, count how many from start to finish since the stations aren't clearly marked.  And to echo other reviews, you won't wait long for your train.;5;September 4, 2013
A must see;The Moscow Metro is a must see. The stations are the grandest I have seen. Each station has a special ambience, some with statues, some with murals  and others with paintings.  The depth of the escalators make the trip really exciting...;5;September 4, 2013
Amazing!!;I would never have guessed that there would be stunning metro stations along the Moscow underground.  The original ring of metro stations are amazingly beautiful and unique with paintings, mosaics and bas relief art abounding.  It's rather like a train ride to various rooms in a museum.  I definate "Can't miss" experience.;5;September 3, 2013
Metro (Subway) of Moscow, Russia;The Muscovites enjoy their subway system, including the train stations, which each station is a art museum unto itself.  The stations are extremely clean, no graffiti, and trains depart every 2 minutes. Escalators take you to the different levels of the train station. Moscow is a city of 12 million people with an additional 8 million working Moscow Monday thru Friday, so the need for an efficient public transportation system is necessary. The highways are crowded with autos, so the Metro is the way to travel. The only negative is that the signs and Metro maps are in Russian, so difficult to translate.  However, the many of the Muscovites speak sufficient English to translate which train to take to your desired destination...Well worth the visit;5;September 3, 2013
SPLENDID,SPECTACULAR,SUPERB METROS;What a fantastic art work has been created all over the metro station!!!!!!! it is speechless creature which shown us the socialistic character of Russia. During my visit to Moscow in the year 2008,i had used the cleanest,safest,artistic METRO STATION each & everyday.The route maps were designated the proper direction of Metro station which was very helpful to us where to get up & caught the next metro.;5;September 3, 2013
metro;it was very fast, cheap and convinient. It was regularly well signalled in russian!!(follow the colours), and it is amazing that you go down even 90 meters by ellectric stairways;4;September 3, 2013
Taking the Moscow Metro;Apart from the language barrier and understanding where to go due to unfamiliar names, once you get past this obstacle your commute from place to place in Moscow will be a positive one. Stations are extremely clean, well run and most stations have trains coming every 51 seconds. Moscow's subway is ranked in the top 5 in the world and to add to that each station has its unique theme depicting some of the past in Russia history.;5;September 3, 2013
Great Journey;When I was passing the entrance of the subway in Moscow I didn't expected to find what I found; the design of each station is both beautiful and amazing, all the marble walls, stairs and columns give the sensation of being in a palace. The trains are very old but together with the station itself it   brings an image of elegance and style. Apart from being very elegant, the subway in Moscow works great with punctuality and order.;5;September 3, 2013
Use it every day;It works wonderful. As any other city gets crowded at rush hour, but not bad in my experience. The signs are a bit difficult to understand, but I use my Metro app on my smartphone and it makes it a lot easier.;4;September 3, 2013
Very interesting;The system is very efficient and extremely clean. It is easy to use.The decor is unbelievable. The locals were helpful even with the communication problem.;4;September 3, 2013
You will soon get the knack;The stations are all individual antique designs, the trains and the platforms are spotless, none of the rats you get in NY, or the graffiti you get in Paris, or the urine smell you get in London. Some of the trains are old and some are modern, but they are frequent and reliable. People are polite, and extremely happy to point you in the right direction when you inevitably get a little confused by the lack of English alphabet on the station names or maps. It is a complete mystery to me why anyone would want to drive in the worlds worst traffic when they could ride in the worlds most exuberant metro.;5;September 2, 2013
Magnifient metros;We used the metro system a lot even to visit stations as they were so incredible. Each so individual and all works of art in their own right.;5;September 2, 2013
Metro;Much better than the NYC subways! Clean, modern, efficient, and full of gorgeous art work!! In  subway stations, no less.;5;September 2, 2013
Best metro;Metros normally are not much to talk about but this was a exception. If you take a tour or wander around yourself there are some really beautiful stations with some interesting history as well. We found it to be the only thing in Russia we could easily navigate by ourselves.;5;September 1, 2013
Wow wow wow!!;Awesome - pretty unbelievable display of beauty and creativity!!We hopped on and off lots of trains (which came every minute or so!!) and were stunned with the amazing beauty and the amount of work and effort which had gone into making these stations like museums!! Just a shame the Moscovites appeared to be totally disinterested!!;5;August 31, 2013
Easy and cultural;We took the subway to an open air market on Sunday.  We even had to change trains once but we had no problem.  You don't need coins; simply put in a bill and you get a ticket and change.Scan the ticket at the turnstile and get on the metro.The stops are unique with the statues, and artistic ambiance. These metros handles millions of people every day and are clean and neat and user friendly.  It was a must see on our list.;5;August 31, 2013
Make a day of it!;Very impressive!  Each station is a mini-museum with different types of statues and paintings.  I think when I found most fascinating was how deep these things were!  Some tracks were 80 meters underground!;5;August 30, 2013
Moscow Metro;Wow what a fantastic adventure. Before going know that it's all in Russianand it can be difficult to find your way at first. The four of us with back packs were able to get around great. It is cheap as well 30R about .90 cents Cdn. If you are not which train to take take your time they come about every 3 min. Visit the stations they are amazing. Don't be afraid they are easy to ride. Oh and the rudeness of the locals seem to multiply on the metro but once you accept it go for it!;4;August 30, 2013
Beautiful and Functional (but slightly confusing for a newbie);Functionality:- Interchanges, particularly at Arbatskaya, can be particularly confusing when you have to take a train just to switch lines, while still being at the very same station... :S People are willing to help though, just ask nicely.- A 10/20-ride metro card costs just R265/520, and all journeys regardless of length cost the same. it's a very affordable mode of transport in Moscow.- Photography within the metro system is technically prohibited due to security concerns, but you'll still see tourists snapping away all the same. If you want take pictures, do it discreetly and avoid tripods or flash.Aesthetics-wise, the metro system here is downright stunning and puts the worlds' metro systems to shame - it is incredibly beautiful and delicate and you will see murals, carvings and intricately designed pillars. The best and prettiest stations are on the Circle line, constructed during the Stalinist era - stations are rather deep as they were good for bomb shelters in the event of raids. For an indication of how incredible the stations are like - do a google search for Moscow Metro tours - yes there are tour packages that bring people to visit the Metro system!Safety - avoid the metro during peak hours, as the crowd can be immense and there are various syndicates that target vulnerable foreigners. Reports seem to indicate the most crime being at the Circle line stations. Be vigilant, but don't forget to admire the stations!Fun facts:- gMail's logo was inspired by and created in the Moscow metro.- There is a free "Public Museum of Moscow Metro" at Sportivnaya Metro station  - check the limited opening hours before going.Sportivnaya Metro station is also the station that gets you to the Novodevichy - so you don't have to make an extra trip for the Metro museum;4;August 30, 2013
Amazingsky;I'm no fan of communism but even I have got to marvel at what the comrades achieved when Stalin decided that Moscow needed an underground railway network. As a visitor you are likely to have to use it to get around. It is efficient, clean and cheap. It can be a bit daunting navigating between stations named in Cyrillic but you should get the hang of it reasonably quickly. The Metro is, however, a tourist destination in its own right and with a 30 rouble ticket (GBP 0.60) you can spend a whole afternoon marveling at the stations built as a monument to socialism. Most in the central area are built with an open marbled hall between a particular line's two platforms and many of these are still decorated with statues, murals, mosaics, chandeliers or stained glass glorifying the Soviet Union. Our favourite was Komsomolskaya on Line 5 (Brown) but there are plenty others to discover.;5;August 29, 2013
Wow!;The  stations that have the special features are quite incredible, they are like mini palaces.  It is very easy to go on your own without a tour guide for the equivalent of 90p, we were charged £35 by our tour guide,;5;August 29, 2013
Amazing!;Take a tour of the Metro - it is amazing!!! Loved seeing all the historical stations and learned a lot.  Worth a whole afternoon!;5;August 28, 2013
Frequent Traveller;Ultra efficient, clean & very cheap.  Attendants always happy to help point you in the right direction.Cannot fault it.;5;August 27, 2013
Clean and efficient;You need a kind of Oyster Card to travel on this railway.  Incredible architecture showing Stalinist iconography, chandeliers and Soviet propagana murals.  Muscovites don't notice the grandeur any more but westerners are always photographing it.  No restrictions on that.;4;August 27, 2013
Excellent service !;I am really glad that I used this system.  Unlike London underground it is spacious and the art work in places is superbe.  Trains come very 2 mins ..... no waiting about !;5;August 27, 2013
Moscow metro;Very efficient and some great stations to see. Only 30 rub per trip (60pence) or 200rub all day (4 pounds). Tip : get a good map in Russian and English as you the stations are all in Russian and the guide books in English ! Have fun, there is always a train back every 90 seconds !!;5;August 27, 2013
Brilliant;This has to be the best underground train service in the world.  Trains every 2-3 minutes and hardly any red light stops.  Also, the architecture is superb.  Go on an organised tour to get acquainted and then but a Metro card and enjoy yourself.  Don't forget the camera and a flash!;5;August 27, 2013
Peace of art;We started our Journey in St Petersburg, took the train to Moscow. We later took the plane to Stuttgard and drove all the way to Marianske Lazne in CZ Rep.passing by the fantastic castle road.I will be sharing lot of experience from this journey and later in September add the photos as well.The Metro of Moscow is a museum by itself. Some are historically build since the 1945. Marbles, statues. crystal chandelier. bronze, etc.I believe it is one of the most fantastic metro in the world if not the best.I read that there are also guided tours. We did not take any guided tour but travelled from different points in the city using the metro. It is a very inexpensive mean of travel.;5;August 27, 2013
Train ride through a Museum;Iniatly had a guided tour of the mero and Moscow at night. The guide gives you the basics and a good introduction to the metro system as for the arts. The system is very effecient and easy to use{keep track of the station names, as the tourist maps may have english, Russian or a translated Russian}. Each stop has a different theme. Like all metro's, busy during the day and rush hour. Very clean.;4;August 26, 2013
More like a museum;Wow it's hard to believe you are in a station, there's artwork, mosaics and chandeliers everywhere! The metro is not only very efficient and easy to use but its absolutely spotlessly clean and beautiful to look at.;5;August 26, 2013
Beauty and the Beast;Every visitor has to try this. The most inspirational architecture lies hundreds on meters below Moscow Streets. To meet a Russian you would never think them capable of creating such romantic architecture in such a practical place. Okay its impossible to navigate but getting lost is part of the fun as you will simply discover more and more beautiful stations in your attempts to get found.And unlike ANYTHING else in Moscow. Its great value.Beware pickpockets though ...the beast that goes with the .beauty...I got my wallet lifted, in a very crowded station.Also, men beware the ticket barriers, which can slam with terrifying force at trouser height!!! My friend NED now sings soprano!;5;August 26, 2013
Clean, beautiful and efficient;The Moscow underground, or Metro, is a must when visiting the city.  The original circle line is very beautiful.  It was built during Stalin's time, who said "the people never saw the palaces, so now the palaces will come to the people."  Most of the stations on this line are amazing and beautiful, it is worth doing a circuit and getting off at each station for a few minutes to take a look before joining the next train.  This is the cleanest, cheapest and most efficient metro system I have ever used.  Tickets cost 30 rubles for any length of trip (longest can be 1.5 hours).  The only drawback for foreigners, and a common one here, is the lack of English signage, or even signage in Roman letters rather than Cyrillic.  However, at least now the maps have both so it is very easy to use.  The traffic is so bad that this is the most time efficient way to get around.  Can get very crowded in rush hour and apparently there is a risk of pickpockets but not in our experience.;4;August 26, 2013
An underground art gallery;Wow!  Sorry to offend out there, but old Stalin actually was good for something, namely building some amazing stuff in Moscow.  I adored his "Stalin Gothic" buildings, but the Moscow Metro is something that visitors can see that is intrinsic to the city.  Every station was designed to be beautiful, and most of them still are. They are all different and all display various styles and art forms.  Chandeliers, marble, mosaics, statues and more in the subway: I guess it was supposed to cheer up the downtrodden masses.  Don't know if it worked, but it's quite a legacy.  A couple of cautions: (1)  the escalators are steep and seem to go pretty fast, so hold the hand rail  (2) the trains go faster than ours in the US so get on and get off with no hesitation.  If it's not the right stop, just catch another train that will be along in a minute.;5;August 25, 2013
beautiful and clean, signs are in Russian, need more other languages instructions;I like the art on the stations, I dislike the difficulties on understanding the stops. The Metro needs more on other languages, as they use another alphabet, We never get lost but I know a little of the alphabet;4;August 25, 2013
Plan to get lost but great way to get around;It costs a $1 to go each way on the metro. There are so many lines and everything is in Russian so make sure your hotel tells you exactly what way and what line to take.I took pictures on my iPhone of where I was going and where I needed to get back to so I could show the photos to people when I was lost.There is great shopping the Metro as well (grocery stores, shoes etc).Loved the interesting Metro experience in Moscow!;4;August 25, 2013
Too noisy and full of people;Some stations a really good, old and interesting. But you should plan you visit carefully. It is overloaded all day round.;3;August 25, 2013
josephine 747;Very efficient and frequent service. Work out where you want to go and write down the English and Cyrrillic spelling of the stations you need.When on the Metro the announcements on trains going into the City are made by a man and on trains going away from the city are made by a woman. This can be a quick check that you are going in the correct direction;5;August 23, 2013
Just a few corridors;Many pictures throughout internet showing beautiful corridors, like museums or castles. Actually there are a few corridors that do look fantastic, but it´s only some part of the station not the whole. Moscow metro is old and need a urgente remodelling. All the signs are in russian alphabet, not even the word EXIT, exists. The distances in Moscow are very long, so be prepared.;3;August 22, 2013
A must to see!;Wow, it was quite a visit and a very interesting one. We were glad we did the tour, although it was very tiring, but very very interesting. The biggest problem when yo do this tour, please be aware that there are no pubic toilets in the metro and the Tour takes 2 hours!;5;August 22, 2013
Best Metro in the world;When you travel on a metro in any city and the average wait time for a train is under 60 seconds..... you are in Moscow.  Not to mention every station is a work of art from marble wall to bronze statues, no 2 stations alike, WOW.;5;August 21, 2013
Moscow Metro Tour - Amazing;This tour is amazing. The history of the metro stations visited is something to behold. The Moscow metro is quite a daunting task to tackle - but with the experienced guide no one got lost (!) and we learned a lot about the history of these amazing stations. I don't know of any other metros worldwide with such stunning sights & history. A very informative guide who spoke very clear English;5;August 21, 2013
Fast and cheap.;You won't have to wait long for a train. Normally every 90 seconds. I once waited 5 minutes, which was the longest and very unusual and only happened once.Cheap to use and some of the stations are tourist attractions in their own right.;5;August 21, 2013
Worth getting lost;One of the most interesting and beautiful metros I have been on. Many stations are worth a visit - many have very nice artwork, statues, and ceilings that will leave you in awe. It's a bit confusing if you're not familiar with it, but there are plenty of people who will help you find your way (ask young or middle age individuals). You will get lost but it's well worth it!!;4;August 20, 2013
Wonderful;Fantastic stations  in the city centre, beautifully clean, marble tiled, tremendous variely of paintings, statues and other decorations. We alighted at several stations just to see them. We visited on a Sunday so not very busy, but on weekdays trains run at 90 second intervals. We have travelled on many metros all over the world but never one like this. Remarkable;5;August 20, 2013
A sight in itself;Travelling on the London Underground will never be the same again. The Moscow Metro is an astonishing feat of work - and art. Chandeliers, soviet statues, mosaics......It's also very fast, very cheap and the best way to get around. Once you've grasped how the lines work. If you get confused or lost - ask someone. You'll find people are only too willing to help. It was one of my favourite bits of my visit to Moscow. You can even go on a tour.;5;August 19, 2013
A very old thing;Old and sometimes rude. You should probably avoid rush working hours. A lot of people. But on weekends in the morning it looks totally fine. Try to visit the oldest stations. They are amazing;4;August 19, 2013
Cheap, fast and efficient;It cna be a little confusing sometimes - particularly at unctions where each station has a different name but it is very quick (around every 2 minutes usually), cheap at 30 roubles for anywhere on the network, and some of the stations are true works of art.  Go for it.;4;August 19, 2013
Interesting and old;Very interesting and old place. You can feel its history. All the stations are totally different and have their own story. Vozdvizhenka a very interesting station with a marble walls and columns. It is very bright and full of light inside. You can see decorations even on the floor you can see. I highly recommend you visit Moscow metro. But you should choose your time carefully. Because during all the working week there is extremely a lot of people.;5;August 19, 2013
A true attraction;Try to avoid the rush hours, morning and afternoon, and take your time to enjoy the interesting stations. Some of them are small museums to an era gone by of ideas and ideals. A visit to Moscow's great metro stations is a great way to learn about this city's 20th century history.;5;August 18, 2013
Metro;Great efficient however access an be hard if you ate not good on stairs ie use a walking stick. Frequency of trains is excellent;4;August 17, 2013
Living Gallery;Metro stations look like working versions of opera theatres with the pauper patrons not daring to break out into arias, nor even hum along.;5;August 16, 2013
Absolutely stunning!;Perfect for a rainy day and excellent value. A true reflection of some of the style and class of Russian culture.;5;August 16, 2013
Very unusual aesthehic and cultural experience;Moscow metro is one of the places which you really need to attend. It is one of the great achievement of the Soviet time - palaces for ordinary people with practical use. Each station is decorated differently. Not all stations are equally beatiful. Certainly the older ones are better and more interesting but some new are very nice too. In my taste Komsomolskaya koltsevaya is just great. Certainly you need to try to avoid rush hours - it is extremely annoying when you are in hurry and use metro as public transport but crowds of tourists cross your way. So do not go there between 8 to 10 am or from 6 to 8 pm. But even better if you just use it as a mean of transport in moscow - as it is intended and designed to to used, it is efficient and not expensive, then you will combine social experience to feel real Moscovite and also do some sightseeing.;4;August 16, 2013
Marvelous architecture;I was very impressed that such an architecture exist for a metro. Because compared to the metro or subway of other places such as New York, London, Paris, Tokyo or Singapore, Moscow metro surpasses them all in sheer articulateness;4;August 16, 2013
Like underground ballrooms;We spent our last morning (2.5 hours) touring the various stations recommended by Lonely Planet.  It was an amazing experience.  The marble, the tiling, the chandeliers are just stunning.  My favourite was Novoslobodskaya with its 32 stained glass panels. What a tour for 30 roubles!;5;August 15, 2013
Spectacular metro!;I was shocked when I see Moscow underground at first time. All stations are unique and spectacular with monuments and mosaics and their clean. You can reach wherever you want, because it’s really huge. So I have good impression from Moscow underground. I can admit only one disadvantage – there is you can’t find any English transparent.;5;August 14, 2013
Train Station.......blew my mind!;The Moscow train stations are something else!  Huge works of architectural genius?....each stop unique and the whole thing is huge.  I still am trying to get my head around how it can be so clean, so huge, so damn functional and so beautiful!  No trip to Moscow would be complete unless you join the millions of daily commuters for this experience.;5;August 13, 2013
Another Russian Gem;The Moscow Metro makes the London Underground look primitive and cheap. The stations we visited were stunning and spectacular. They were clean. No graffiti and the lighting was amazing.;5;August 13, 2013
Beautiful art in subways;I had heard about Moscow's subways and was certainly impressed when I saw them and used them.  FIrst, they are super clean and efficient.  But make sure you can read the signs in Cyrillic before you venture out on your own.  Second, the "Brown" line seems to have many of the most beautiful artwork, but there are other stops that do, too.  YOu might want to check with some locals to find out their favorite stops.  You will see mosaics in the ceilings, sculpture in the doorways or holding up arches, and other things.  Many of these stations are very deep (even deeper than the subway at Dupont Circle in Washington, D.C.)....don't get dizzy on the escalators!;4;August 13, 2013
Beautiful and functional;Metro stations are truly beautiful and you can go by metro whenever you want. The only disadvantage: it doesn't go at night.;5;August 13, 2013
Efficient and impressive, but brush up on your Russian!;It's hard to fault a system where the trains arrive regularly every two minutes, and there's not many places you need to go that aren't within easy reach of a Metro station. But unlike the St. Petersburg Metro, don't expect to find any English translations of the station names, so it takes a little extra effort to make sure you're getting off at the right stop!Some of the stations are architectural delights, others not so much! But for getting quickly and cheaply from A to B, it's hard to fault!;4;August 13, 2013
Art in the City;Russia has harsh winters, and I for one am glad that they have a Metro that gives a little beauty to their lives.  Each station has outstanding public art, and the ease of transit is to be envied.;4;August 12, 2013
This is where the people are!;The variety of artwork contained in the underground stations of the metro is fantastic!  Go with a guide who can explain the historic content and Political context of the mosaics, paintings, sculptures, etc.  Watch for people rubbing the bronze statues for health, wealth or happiness!;5;August 12, 2013
Moscow-Metro-Unique Experience;One of the most -unique experience, when visiting the Moscow City, is reserve minimum half of a day, for the -Moscow underground. It´s a wonderful place to finish your day, 99% of Moscow metro stations are unique and very beautiful.;5;August 12, 2013
Incredible decorations and mosaics;I have never been on an underground system quite like this. The elaborate monuments and mosaics are amazing and really worth seeing. The system itself is a little complicated to follow until it is explained to you however and the ticket offices are very crowded.;4;August 11, 2013
Traveling the Moscow Metro;The Moscow metro was great- efficient, safe, well run.  One tip that I took to heart is to be sure you have a copy of the map in Cyrillic letters to help you navigate the station stops.  There is no english translations anywhere.  Another insight is that people on the metro and in the stations do not chit chat.  Don't be surprised if fellow riders give you a quizzical look.;5;August 11, 2013
Highly recommended;Hi guys, dont miss the moscow metro as a point of attraction. Not all stations. Moind the oldest ones, as Komsomolskaya (curcle line), Novoslobodskaya (fine glass used in decoration), Ploshad Revoluzii (perfect cast statues), Kievskaya. I do personally like Mayakovskaya.;5;August 11, 2013
Very Artistic and Historic;We had heard about the artistic features of the Moscow Metro but did not fully appreciate what it meant until we paid our visit.The historic significance of each station tells its own story.We were lucky and managed to visit 4 Stations during our time there. Each quite different.;4;August 11, 2013
Clean, beautiful and efficient!;This is the way to travel here.  The trains come so frequently that there is almost no wait at all.  We cannot read the signs but the routes are numbered and have colors.  Some of the stations are really big and require a bit of navigation to get through but no different from any other major city.  Each station is different and beautiful.  There are statues, mosaics, stained glass....really cool!  We are careful with our bags and valuables as things can get crowded.  We hold our kids hands so they don't get swept away but it seems very safe during the hours we have used it.;4;August 10, 2013
The best way to travel round Moscow;We really enjoyed travelling by Metro, especially once we understood that at points of transfer, the stations may have two names!  Although some of the rolling stock is old, the trains are very frequent, tickets are very cheap and it's very easy to work out where you are and where you are going.  The architecture of the stations is worth a visit in itself.  If you have luggage with you, you need to bear in mind that not all stations have escalators at every point, so you may need to carry your case up stairs but those are only short flights.;5;August 9, 2013
A surprisingly clean and beautiful subway;Many of the subway stations contain great statuary And marble walls and are notable for their overall cleanliness.;3;August 8, 2013
Veins of Moscow;I think if you visit Moscow and you want to feel the "inside" atmosphere of the city, underground is a right place to start with. Most of the stations look like little museums of different epoch, the lights, the smell will make you travel back in time. I think the most special are: Komsomolskaya, Arbatskaya, Mayakovskaya. At least they are my favorite... Also I would strongly recommend to use metro in your trip planning, Moscow have real problems with traffic and it can eat your presious time. By underground you will loose only 30-40 minutes to reach central locations, by car it can take 3 hours (!). Enjoy this city by maximum with underground!;5;August 8, 2013
Don't know what I was worried about !!;This is so easy and cheap to use. 30 roubles per journey (about 60p). Use the Kacca (ticket office) put up how many fingers for number of tickets needed and hand your money over. In return you get a card with that amount of journeys allocated to it. Watch how the person  in front puts his card to the scanner and do the same, pass the card back to your friend (if you only get one card for both of you)Get a good map (in Russian as everything is written in Russian only, an English map will just confuse you), plan where you are going and count the stops.Take your time to match up the Russian names on the map with the right train platform & route. Even at rush hour it is less crowded and claustrophobic than the London Underground. We saw about 12 different stations and while they didn't blow me away with their beauty they were nice, bright and pleasant stations. That said we didn't go out of our way to visit particular stations, these were just the ones used based on where we need to go.;4;August 8, 2013
Palaces for the people;The Moscow Metro stations are architectonical wonders. They were built with the intention to create palaces of the people. And some stations are fantastic. It is pretty cheap, for 30 RBL you can spend 90 minutes underground and can visit all the interesting sites.;4;August 8, 2013
Incredible!;Subway was like a historical place full of statues and work of arts. Many stations with a special look. But there wasn't much English inside the subway, be sure to learn the Russian alphabets (to be able to read stations names.) And u are good to go.;5;August 7, 2013
Памятник сталинского ампира;Very beautiful underground palaces of Stalin time in the central part of Moscow. Real works of art (sculptures, mosaics, pictures), a lot of marble and granit, beautiful architecture. Modern stations are not that interesting except for the stations in the City. Very clean as compared to Paris and NY.;4;August 6, 2013
Nice underground;The most interesting stations are inside Ring line. Tube's built in 1935. Sometime (with awful Moscow traffic) better save your time in tube. A little bit overcrowded with some old coaches on some lines, but in general is really good. One entrance fee less then $1.;4;August 6, 2013
Beautiful to see but not at rush hour;Beautiful place, withe ach and every station individually designed. The oldest stations (like mayakovskaya) have mosaics made with precious stones. Also, statues at Ploschad revolutsii are great, rub the dog and the cockerel for luck ;) If you can, make sure to go on a ride in the evening, when there are fewer travellers (with several million people using the metro daily rush hour is crowded and you'll only get pushed about), see Komsomolskaya, Kyievskaya stations (both are on the Cirsle line, you pay per ride but not per distance) and, basically any other station within the cirle. Those are the oldest and by far the most beautiful ones, although tastes differ, of course.;4;August 6, 2013
Metro sights;You need to visit more than one metro as different décor levels exist - suggest you go to some sights on the circle line.  They allow photography, without flash ...you can get some great pictures - very busy at transit times as they handle over 6 million riders a day;5;August 5, 2013
One of the coolest attraction in Moscow|;The Metro in Moscow is amazing and the most convenient way to get around. The map might be a bit confusing at first (there are good cell phone app to help) but its quiet easy to understand after a while. The stations are work of art.   Novokuznetskaya, Komsomolskaya, Novosloboskaya, Mayakovskaya are amongst my favourite!;5;August 5, 2013
Beautiful, clean and efficient;Don't even attempt to navigate the metro without having first purchased a guide book before departing the UK with a metro map or a locally purchased guide with a pull-out metro map. It can be hard to follow, but you pay a set price and you can visit as many stations as you like as long as you don't exit the metro station itself. This is an ideal way to visit as many of the stations as you can. Even stations a stop apart are vastly different, from bronze statues, art deco style lamps and chandeliers, stained glass, colourful tiles, paintings and gold gilding. The trains run approx. every 2 mins, so if you miss one, another is running right behind it. Platforms are clean, well maintained and largely graffiti free that I could see. If you are intending to take photos etc, try and go at a quiet(er) time of day, such as the evening. Even so, you will probably come across tour groups being shown the subterranean delights.;5;August 5, 2013
A 'Must-See' but not in the Rush-Hours;Even those who have never been to Moscow have at least once heard of its underground system (the Moscow Metro). It's going to celebrate its 80th anniversary in a couple of years. As the construction was commenced in the middle of the Stalin time, the first stations and lines were built on a grand scale, using the best of marble, mosaics and other materials and artistic decorations. The central stations shouldn't be missed, but... avoid doing it in the rush-hours (8-10 am and 6-8pm) otherwise you will be pressed to other passengers on the escalator and squezed in and out of the train, And it may be stuffy on some lines. But still it's the most efficient and reliable means of transport in Moscow.;4;August 4, 2013
Choose a fast ride.;Definitely worth visiting. It may be overcrowded (between 17:00-22:00 - please, don't - everyone is on the way home) but it's the most efficient transport to get around Moscow. Some of old stations really are masterpieces but if you want to to enjoy the look  better visit (stations) very early in the morning. The system is pretty simple. Get a map and don't be afraid to ask people around you.;5;August 4, 2013
The trains run on time;The Moscow Metro has a well-deserved reputation for efficiency. It runs on time, it's warm and comfortable (but crowded), the stations are very artistic. It can be really hectic and difficult to negotiate; if you can't read Russian, don't try it. But if you can manage it or have a companion who can help you through it, it's definitely worth seeing, especially for the artworks in the stations. Also much easier to get around this traffic-choked city. It puts some other major cities' metro lines to shame.;5;August 3, 2013
Practical and impressive.;We took the metro to get around.   It is about one dollar and you ride as long as you want.   We went to several stops just to see them.  You get off and another train is there in 4 minutes or so.  Each stop is different but impressive.  It is worth a visit.Get a map with both Russian and English names as it makes it easier to navigate.   Since the train goes under the river, some of stops are very deep and have a very long escalator ride.;5;August 2, 2013
Get a guide!!!;Get a guide who can take you to the best stations. The station names and what you find on your map are hard to match, and a guide will make sure you see the best locations. It is amazing and worth visiting.;5;August 2, 2013
Myakovskaya metro station;I like walking along the center of the station and look at the ceiling decorated with beautiful mosaics from the 1930s. You can see airplanes, tree branches and even a goalkeeper jumping to get the ball above you ));5;August 1, 2013
A dog's nose.;Moscow Metro is a museum! Some stations are so beautiful that you won't resist from visiting them. Do not forget to get off at the station "Ploschad' revolutsii" ('Square of Revolution') and touch a dog's nose ;);5;August 1, 2013
Better go on Your own not with guide;Moscow metro is heavily overcrowded. Don't even think of visiting it in rush-hour time unless you need a transit. Architecture of Soviet era is of course amazing, but only few stations are worth seeing. Those are: dark blue line from Park Pobedy all the way through to Partizanskaya, Circular line (all stations). The best looking is Ploschad Revolutsii (dark blue line). Advice: read a bit about Russian metro in booking guides but don't go on group tour!! the only advantage of it is that you can take pictures on your camera, but your iPhone can do this job.;3;August 1, 2013
Unique!;One of the most valious russians urban patrimonies! Each metro station has a compleatly different identity, with lots of historical facts and other cultural elements that helps us get to know and understand the complexity of their culture.;5;July 31, 2013
Don't both with the tour just get on and enjoy!;Fantastic service, very cheap, very clean and reliable. You will see the wonderful sights of lots of the beautiful stations just by using this, the easiest form of transport, to see all the sights. Add ages minutes on to each journey just to take in the wonderful architecture and mosaics and paintings, some new modern additions as well.;4;July 31, 2013
Worth to see;Moscow metro is great. The old central stations are very beautiful. The best time to visit on weekends and off-peak hours on workdays.;5;July 31, 2013
Oh the sights you will see...;The Russians have taken the mundane (public transportation) and juiced it up to the level of artwork.  Each metro station in Moscow is unique and most are worth seeing.  Modern designs, retro designs, and old world designs - you'll see them all.  Famous statues from Soviet times and folk heroes of Russian culture.  Toss into this mix the few "specialty trains", which include a moving art museum (absolutely must see, as each car is adorned with artwork), a retro style train from yesteryear, and many others.  The special trains aren't always easy to find, but if you luck onto one or can get a Russian to tell you exactly when/where they may be running that day - they are worth a look as well.Finally, Moscow's Metro is unlike most metros in the west - first it only costs about $1 to ride - so long as you stay underground, you never have to pay again for the day.  You can ride to each station, see all the sights and never pay more than once.  Add on that the fact that the trains run about every 90 seconds or so and you can see the model of efficiency in Russia.Two special notes: avoid the metro during rush hour.  Moscow is a very busy and large city and lots of people travel by metro to/from work.  You will be crammed in like a sardine if you try to go during rush hour.  Second, take a look around as you enter/exit the central points of the metro lines and you'll see very large metal doors in the wall that look like bank vault doors.  These were designed to act as blast doors during the Cold War to let Russians shelter underground and remain alive if the US/USSR ever came to blows.  Fun fact, huh?  Happy traveling.;4;July 30, 2013
Mayakovskaya;I'm sorry to disappoint you, but this is not Vozdvizhenka, this is underground station "Mayakovskaya", one of the most beautiful stations in Moscow metro.;5;July 30, 2013
Remember to look down now and again!;It's usually a long walk into the depths of the Moscow Metro however, this gives an opportunity to absorb the beauty of the stations.Just remember to look down and around now and again, other wise you are liable to fall over or knock into someone, such is the allure of the décor within many of the stations.;5;July 30, 2013
Most unique metro stations;We visited many metro stations during our visit to Moscow.  We enjoyed the rides especially during off peak hours.  Each station has a different theme and every station is clean, and beautifully constructed.  Some stations are as deep as 40 meters underground.;5;July 30, 2013
just amazing;The Moscow metro is a must. Intended to be "Palaces for people", which is still the case. Each station is different, offering a wide variety. Many places have historic background. Kievskaya for example shows in beautiful mosaics (socialist) live in Ukraine. Others are focused on a poet or political topic. You will be surprised how many soviet symbols you will see. Don't be afraid, it is easy to use. Just follow the color code and try to remember the first letters of your station.;5;July 30, 2013
Super Efficient;The Moscow metro is massive but very efficient indeed.Many of the stations are very beautiful and have become tourist attractions in their own right.Miscow is a great city to visit but expensive.;5;July 30, 2013
Viewing better after 20 hours. A lot less people;Beautiful, but stuffy and crowded.Viewing better after 20 hours. A lot less peopleThe most beautiful stationNovoslobodskaia Belarus, Revolution Square.;3;July 30, 2013
Precious!;It's possible to study Ruassian history of Soviet and post Soviet period just vesiting Moscow Metro stations. The eldest stations are veri rich and there one may find too many simbols of the political regim (Ploschad Revoliutsiy, Maiakovskaia). The stations built in 70s and 80s are economical (From Academicheskaia to Beliaevo). Nowa days objects demonstrate high level of Russian design and new technologies (Vistavochnaya, Chkalovskaya).;5;July 30, 2013
Beautiful Moscow Metro (OUT of rush hours);Beautiful old (1930s) stations. Worth seeing! Better go with a Russian-speaking company as very few signs were in English.;5;July 30, 2013
It's a unique experience;Moscow metro is the most beautiful in the world. You can not see it anywhere else. Stations at the central locations look like a palaces: lots of marble, mosaics and decoration. Soviet times - better reminder. My favorite stations are Mayakovskaya, kievskaya, arbatskaya, Krapotkinskaya, Ploshad' revoluzii.;5;July 30, 2013
Metro is a masterpiece under the ground;Dear friends! I was born and have been living in the suburbs of Moscow for more 60 years. It is one of the most wonderful cities of Europe. It is worth visiting. I should start with the Tretyakov Gallery where the best paintings of Russian painters are collected. Then thу Bolshoy Theatre the opera house which was restorated a year ago. Metro is the unique underground transport system and its stations are real palaces under the ground- works of art. There are lots of places of interest. I recommend visiting them.;5;July 29, 2013
Nice stations;The moscow metro it's an amazing experience. You can go to all points of the city by metro. The stations are beautiful and deep!! You can see a lot of paintings and statues. Pay attention in the voice when you are in the circle line. On the ring line, the male voice denotes trains travelling clockwise, whilst the female voice announces trains travelling anti-clockwise. On the radial lines from the city centre to the suburbs, the male voice announces trains travelling towards the centre and the female voice announces trains travelling out of the centre.;5;July 29, 2013
The most beautiful subway in the world;The most beautiful subway in the world, the most beautiful subway in the world. It looks like an art gallery or a historical museum. it is easy to navigate.;5;July 29, 2013
Most practical way to get-around in Moscow;Traffic in Moscow is disaster including taxis. So most practical way to get around is by foot for short distance or metro. To avoid during rush hour though. The stations in downtown are also beautiful and impressive, definitive worth a visit!;5;July 29, 2013
Underground Palaces.;Now, when the ideological considerations of communist era are not of any actuality, these palace-look stations of 1930-1950 may be at last to estimated purely for their aesthetic qualities. And they have! Constructivist palace hall, this discreet luxury of "Mayakovskaya", this is for all times! And Italian neoclassical stations (locally known as "stalinist") of the Ring line are far cry more interesting than this style eve gave on the surface. Byzantine mosaics of "Komsomolskaya" and stained-glasses of "Novoslobodskaya", and semi-precious Urals stone plates decorated almost all early stations - all this must to be seen. (And don't ask, where are the toilets - American tourists are already famous for this question even at Versailles Palace, stupid!);5;July 29, 2013
Moscow Metro;The Metro stations in Moscow are gorgeous!   Kievskaya probably [don't forget the bottom level of this one] my favorite followed by the Revolutionary one.  I spent a lot of time going to each Metro station and it was worth it!;5;July 29, 2013
Cheap, efficient, noisy and crowded;Have used Moscow metro for 16 years. Its an incredibly efficient and cheap way to get around and as Moscow traffic is nearly always jammed up, much better than by car. Its a little difficult if you do not speak any Russian but, as always in Moscow, if you need help just ask anyone under 20. Some of the stations are very beautiful. My favourites are Mayakovskaya and Ploshad Revolutsi which happen to be on the same line and very close. One of the great features is that all tickets are one price (about 85 US cents each if you buy 20) and you only have to use the ticket on the way in. One multiple ticket can be used by many people. The only warning I would give is to avoid the metro during rush hours and it gets very busy and making a change at a station if you don't know where you are going is tricky. Otherwise just take the precautions you would take on any metro anywhere.;4;July 29, 2013
Get to Russia!;You are welcome! The Moscow Metro is the best in the world! My recomendation is you shouls go to the stations Novoslabodskaya, Mayakovskaya, Ploshchad Revoluzii, Kropotkinskaya, Kievskaya, Taganskaya etc.;5;July 29, 2013
Underground palaces;The Moscow Metro system is not only one of the most efficient underground systems in the world, it boasts some of the most gorgeous stations. Having said that, it is not always easy for someone who does not read or understand Russian even though they do have many english language signs now. Still, if you are the adventurous type...and want to avoid the above ground traffic, it is well worth the effort. There are various web sites with information about the stations so you can prepare yourself before hand...especially finding the most interestingly designed stations. The all-in-one transit pass is a great improvement too. Now you can get a multi-ride pass and it is good for the metro as well as the buses/trolleybuses/trams.;5;July 29, 2013
The Moscow Metro is a much;The Moscow metro is definitely worth a visit, although avoid the rush hour of 8 to 10 and from 17 to 19.00, as that can be a bit crowded, definitely visit some of the stations on the brown (Circle line) they are most ornate with tainted windows in Novslobodskaya station. However Ploshad Revolution is most amazing, with around 50 or more sculptures, representing the different sections of society who participated in the Russian revolution, don't forget to rub the dogs nose for good luck (you will see it is very shinning as this is an old Moscow tradition);4;July 29, 2013
Stunning stations. Efficient, inexpensive and fun if tourist who wants more than controlled image of reality;Two of us journied down into the Metro one evening, having heard the metro stations are worth it.  We easily figured out cost and access (it was inexpensive, I don't recall exact amount).  Stations names were a fun challenge being English speakers and Arabic alphabet.   This is the place you see a better cross section of how Moscow lives and survives.  It is packed, people are moving full speed and learn the flow or be pushed aside.  The Lenin influence is remarkable and today's presence of Moscow Police comforting if you are concerned about safety.  If you have decent map, just get off at random stops and wander.  Seeing the City via foot and the Metro was a worthwhile venture.;5;July 29, 2013
Impressive;Going down into the metro is a history in art, there are statues everywhere, many depicting fighters from the Soviet era. We rode the underground for a few stops and each stop had more to see.;4;July 29, 2013
Museums that work!;I now live in and have lived in Moscow since 1994 and travelled extensively throughout the city using their METRO or UNDERGROUND train system.  The inner city stations are almost all incredibly ornate, many with statues and carvings, paintings and murals depicting soviet history (because most were built during the soviet years.).Once you travel beyond what is often regarded as the Garden Ring, the stations become more utilitarian without the artwork found on the inner city stations.  The more modern ones have been completed since perestroika and cater to the ever-expanding city population and physical city diameter.On average, the trains seem to run about every 1 to 2 minutes and almost very accurately timed.  There is ono evidence of claustrophobia, as these stations are far larger than many of their British, European and North American counter-parts!  Only Egypt (in my experience) equals the airiness of the metro stations.Now, conversely, the trains themselves have been in use for many decades and have only recently have started to be replaced with newer models.  When the train is ready to leave a stain, a recording announces that the doors are closing… "Beware…" and then the next station name.  The doors DO close, with a determination that causes the passenger to make sure that he/she is NOT caught between them.  There is approximately 1 second from start of close to completion with a loud 'bang!'The trains move very quickly from station to station, and brake rapidly, so make sure being  that you have a tight hold of the handrails or straps, to avoid collected in a group at one end of the carriage.  Ventilation is through the narrow horizontal windows that are usually open during both summer and winter.  Nothing is air-conditioned!Metro starts at about 05:30 and the last train from which one can 'change' to another metro line is usually 12:30.  If you do not need a change than 01:00 can get you home!I am a pensioner (I have Russian residency) so am able to have free transportation for the remainder of my life, using my credit card sized Pensioner ID 'magnetic swipe' card to gain entrance.  It also gives me supermarket discounts, as well!Russian Metro is perhaps the most crowded system in the world, with Japan a tight second.  London is only crowded, because their trains run only one train every 10 to 15 minutes!!!!!  Slow system!Some of the most luxuriously decorated stations include Arbat, Smolensky, Kievsky and those situated round the Garden Ring and in the very centre of the city.Each station is well signed and easy to identify, even if it your first visit to Moscow!Metro a well-worth visit.;5;July 29, 2013
Moscow subway - trips to underground palaces;Some of the stations are real palaces. Definitely worth seeing. The trains could look a bit outdated but old stations are real work of art.;5;July 29, 2013
Awesome Subway!;Architecture is awesome and amazing, only one thing is not good- over crowded at rush hours...Most of the stations are pieces of art with their original, inimitable icon style , which you cannot meet anywhere else in the world.Circle system of subway station is quite convenient for transportation within the city , you will find maps everywhere in the wagons or in the halls.;5;July 29, 2013
Take the Circle Line (Brown);Go on a Sunday or on weekdays mid-morning and take the Circle Line and hop on-hop off. You do not really need a guide. Just take a good map in English/Russian with you and Google the stations before hand. On Sundays beware of pick-pockets.;4;July 29, 2013
Beautiful.;I live in this city, and Vozdvizhenka is just amazing! Beautiful stylish walls and amazing decorations. Washed up floor and amazing lamps. Nothing much to tell except visit as soon as possible! The only thing that makes Moscow beautiful (Just Kidding.);5;July 29, 2013
try to visit old stations;Try to visit few stations in the center and on the ring. Unlike their modern counterparts they were done as unique objects of art. Paintings on the celling, mosaics, metalworks - most of them at least interesting (I remind you - they were made during the USSR time and have atmosphere of that era imprinted). Also it is the fastest way around the center of the city.P.s: please be aware that formally you may need a written permit to take photos of the underground system (in reality almost nobody cares).;4;July 29, 2013
Everyday, from work to home;Every day I'm going on that transport from home to work, and of course back to home. When you living here you are not looking on statues, pictures or even people, like automat.If you visiting Moscow, you HAVE to visit some of metro stations. They are beautiful like palaces and crowdy like market place.I'm reconeded to visit Mayakovskay, Komsomolskya, all ring line.And some stations in the center.;5;July 29, 2013
Must see attraction in Moscow;Opened in 1935 Moscow metro with lot of history behind, now is the largest underground transport system in Russia. The Moscow Metro is the world's third most heavily used rapid transit system after Tokyo subway and Seoul Metropolitan Subway. Many stations in the city center are worth to visit just only because of their unique and authentic interior. In the rush hours can be very crowded, so try to avoid that time to really enjoy the metro.;5;July 29, 2013
Moscow Metro - The best Metro rail system in the world;The Moscow Metro is clean, efficient, cheap and beautiful. You see the real Moscow people on these trains. All strata of society. Learn abut Russian fashion! What stands out is the wide coverage of the system across most of Moscow and the  Metro's astounding frequency. It is historic and contains impressive architectural gems, mosaics, cultural motifs, extraordinary light fittings and lots of Russian brass and marble. Forget the taxis and catch the metro. You don't need a tour. Just a map and a ticket. It doesn't matter if you get lost.  Just get off and go back  the other way. And try talking to some locals! There are some amazing old stations...Ploshchad Revolutsii, Kropotkinskaya, Mayakovskaya, Komsomolskaya, Avtozavodskaya...the list goes on...or see some of the tasteful newer stations: Park Pobedy or Slavyansky Bulvar, Novokosino, Sretensky Bulvar, Trubnaya and more. Use the metro to get to many of the great sites...Red Square, GUM, the ballet, great museums...You can also connect to the three major stations with airport connections (if not too much luggage).You can prepare by reading the internet, getting maps & guidebooks and downloading useful apps which guide you by smart phone. It takes about a dedicated hour or so to learn the cyrillic alphabet...you'll thank me if you do this...your trip will be amazing...in any case the station names are announced by loudspeaker and are transliterated into English on maps. This is one of the world's public transport marvels. Enjoy.;5;July 29, 2013
I live in Moscow, but continue to be impressed;Entrace to Moscow metro is equal to one dollar, but you can really see a lot of beatiful stations. Our metro has high ceilings and beatiful design of stations (except the most recently built). I recommend:Both KomsomolskayaNovoslobodskayaPloshad RevoluciiMayakovskaya...and many other, but I have not used many stations outside my routine recently.Note that metro is crowded between 7-11 am and 5-8 pm on workdays.;5;July 29, 2013
Unusual and stunning;Moscow metro is a huge and impressive transport system worth visiting at off-peak hours (Saturday and Sunday mornings preferable) to avoid crowds. Many stations are so ornate and grandiose that remind you of the underground marble palaces decorataed with intricate mosaics.. Stations built in the 60s are much more functional but still have decorations and symbols. The following stations are a complete must for getting the feel of metro: Kievskaya circle line, Komsomolskaya circle line, Mayakovskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Sretenskiy bulvar, Ploschad Revolyutsii.;5;July 29, 2013
Mayakovskaya Metro Station;One of the most beautiful metro stations in Moscow. A lot of light, air, and good atmosphere. During WWII was used as a bomb shelter and a dormimtory for thousands of people. One can see "Oh my God" mozaic on the ceiling that are worth taking photos of.;5;July 29, 2013
Metro;Moscow is a massive city,so it's metro is big.If you follow the lines you are safe. If you don't speak Russian you would have a bit of a problem. It is good and runs on time.;4;July 29, 2013
Dump the overground transport and travel like Muscovites;All to often I hear if tourists getting about in taxis and hotel cars and the only time they visit the metro us to take a few photos. But it is by far the most efficient firm if transport in Moscow. All the above ground sites are within 10-15 minutes walk of metro so I suggest they use the metro. Travel out to this stop and take a look it's got great vaulted ceilings and although not as detailed as Kievskaya it's worth the stop;3;July 29, 2013
One of the most interesting tours in Moscow;Very beautiful! Mostly all Moscow stations are worth seeing. Take a tour with the guide to discover all the secrets of Moscow metro stations. And only by metro you can travel in Moscow without any traffic jams.;4;July 29, 2013
Effective;Effective but old like London.they don't give you a long time to get on and off!!!!..............................................................Sometimes difficult to find the correct entrance for English speakers;3;July 28, 2013
Amazing!!!!;The metro tour we took was absolutely amazing.  If the entire circle route is like that, I am very disappointed that we did not go round and get off and on at every station.  The five that we visited resembled a museum or art gallery more than a metro.  Certainly not to be missed!;5;July 27, 2013
After Newyork, most efficient and vast;I have visited many cities metros, but found Moscow metro to be very very convenient and well connected. I would rank it just next to the Newyork metro. While metro is very old, like the newyork one, the routes are comprehensvie to reach most parts of the city. I guess it has 8-10 lines, i had tried only few of them. Eventhough you don't understand a single word in russian, its easy to commute in this metro once you have tried once in this. the ticket counters have english option, it costs you 30 rubbles (less than a $) for a single ride. There are metro maps that you can find in every station and you can get them in your hotels as well.Especially enjoyed the giant elevators...reminded me of my stay in Newyorkconvenient, inexpensive and effecient way to move around : Moscow Metpo (as i seen in there);5;July 27, 2013
Symbol for communism;See Moscow metro with its splendid monuments for just 1 usd and get shocked how could the Soviet built such a long term Infrastructure in 50s.;5;July 26, 2013
more beautiful in pictuers but still worth to visit it;I accept that there's great metro stations that is one of exciting palace in your Moscow travel . but i don't know why i think that the pictuers that you can see in books are more beautiful and I don't belive that those pics are from the stations that i visit few hours ago !!!;4;July 26, 2013
Beautiful;Clean, safe, and easy to use and beautiful to see.  If you get confused as to which exit to use out of the stations, just look confused and we always had someone come to our rescue.;5;July 26, 2013
A trip in itself;Although crowded it was efficient and cheap. The stations were a wow and we were lucky to miss 2 underground incidents, a fire and an evacuation by 1 day each time. The stations were easy to undertstand after one journey;5;July 26, 2013
Only in Russian.;Fantastic metro system!It's critical to get a good metromap otherwise it's not possible to find your way in there! Lots of beautiful stations.People seems to be quite helpful,even the policemen will help you!;4;July 26, 2013
Pause and Take two Minutes then use for the airport;The intricate design work in the metro is worth the ticket price alone. The lighting and art deco design work is impressive. If you can use the metro when going to the airport it will take less than half the time versus a cab. And much cheaper.;4;July 24, 2013
fabulous;one the highlights of our trip to moscow. the metro is truly a treasure in itself, to make sure you don't miss any off the best ones get a guide as the best ones are in the city circle truly amazing. very grand and starlinistic but worth the look;5;July 24, 2013
A Cold War shelter?;The best metro I've been into. From the outside, it seems like an antique building from the 60's but once you walk, you forget instantly what the outside world looks like. Using the metro is the cheapest way to get around in a city that is very expensive. To go down to the wagons, one must first have to travel very deep in order to reach them. When you are going down and the others are going up, it looks like they were bent because of the steepness and lenght of the electric stairs! Once I got down to the wagons, I was very impressed to see how neat the stations were! All have different designs but all are breath taking. From marble, to granite and even a mini museum they are all very pretty. The only bad thing was that there were no signs in other languages so to get around I had to translate from the Russian alphabet to the latin alphabet in order to not get lost. I recommend you'll go to see this work of under ground art!;5;July 23, 2013
Another must see Moscow Site;We entered the  metro station traveling down what was touted as “the longest escalator in Europe”.  There aren’t too many places where public transport counts as a tourist attraction when you travel in Europe, so it may sound strange to single it out. We took the escalator at Park Pobedy Station in Moscow.  Park Pobedy station on the Arbatsko-Pokrovskaya Line opened in 2003 and features escalators 126.8 m (413 ft) long, containing 740 steps. From start to finish, a ride on the Park Pobedy escalators can take almost 3 minutes without walking down. We enter the station and took it several stops to Red Square.  When we get off we see many bronze Soviet era statues, including a dog with a very shiny nose.  We were told we would get good luck if we rubbed it and almost everyone (including me) obliged.  We had to go up another escalator but this one was not touted to be the longest.;5;July 23, 2013
Piece of art - Moscow metro;It's enough to get to Moscow underground to study Russia's history and Russia's prejudice. The most travelled and most beautiful ones are Kievskaya ( ring road) , Mayakovskaya, Ploshad' Revolucii ( the prejudice is for good luck to rub the nose of the dog), Arbatskaya, Kropotkinsaya - it's all the Stalin era contraction, but nowhere else you will find so much style and architecture underground. Some off othe main rounte stations that look gorgeous are Aeroport - with lights behind the marble blocks, Vorobievi gory - station on the bridge over Moscow river that was renovating for 19 year.Overall - is you escape rush hours, Moscow metro is great - relatively cheap ( 30 roubles a ride with no zone system) and beautiful! If you travel at late hours - act as local - don't look people in the eyes not to get extra attention and wear headphones if you travel alone.;5;July 23, 2013
Beautiful stations, cheap, old and noisy carts;It is cheap. For example 500 RUB for 20 travels.Make sure to get on quick, the doors closes really fast. Some stations are amazingly beautiful, especially for just being parts of a great transportation-network in one of the world's biggest cities. Many beautiful paintings and sculptures to see.Most of the Metro lines have old and soisy carts. Sometimes impossible to have a conversation when the train is moving.The roads are most of the time very busy. It's often a faster choice to travel by metro. The trains are going very frequently. It's measured in seconds, when the next train is coming.;4;July 22, 2013
Deep dpwn there....;The metro station must be almost a kilometer below the ground level. It is pretty scary to use a 600 - 800meter long escalator to reach the station. I am sure that even nuclear war can't harm the metro system of Moscow. Their network is a benchmark to the world. Their punctuality is remarkable. The architecture is admirable. Please don't believe on people who tell you that, "You might get robbed in the metro". Its all rubbish. Russian are extremely nice & friendly people with good moral values. They will never hurt you without an objectionable reason. It was fun traveling by the most beautiful & efficient metro in the world.;5;July 22, 2013
moscow metro;this is the deepest metro i have ever seen , trains are on time and completelyunderground  all complaint is there are no english signs anyway all signange is in Russian text but the stations are a marvel;4;July 22, 2013
MOSCOW METRO.. IN SIGHTSEEING ITINERARY;It was amazing that Moscow Metro is included in sight seeing. We were not willing initially but when we went it was like a Museum 100 meters below. Every Metro underground has its own individuality...Mosaic Work , Glass Work, Sculptures ...Breathtaking paintings and what not....;4;July 22, 2013
Get someone to explain the system first!;The moscow metro stations are beautifully decorated and you can spend a lot of time admiring the sculptures and artwork alone. There are tours that take you to different stations or you can make your own for the bargain price of 30 rubles. Tickets are bought from a machine or a cashier. The machines are in russian or english. A one ride trip is 30 rubles but you can buy multiple tickets at once. Once you have gone through the gates you can ride wherever you want as one trip until you surface again. For a foreign traveller with no Russian reading ability, it is challenging because the signs are all in cyrillic. Get someone to explain what to do beforehand and then count stops. The trains only stp for a few seconds so there is no time to dawdle when the train arrives. The metro interchange stations are connected by many passeges and quite often change names so changing lines is a bit more involved then just changing platforms or waiting for another train to roll in on the same platform. The lines are colourcoded so you can follow the coloured signage but be prepared that you will walk for 5 mins through passages go up and down big escalators and then suddenly discover that you are in a different train station but on the line you wanted! It takes some getting used to but is a cheap and efficient way to get around once you get the hang of it.;4;July 22, 2013
good transportation system;good, safe, fast and completly different, unexpensive because the taxis are imposible, so expensive, a lot of people try to use theirs car for taxis but you have to check the price first and always try to get better proce;5;July 21, 2013
A must in Moscow;This is something extraordinary. If you come from Europe and you expect concrete dark station, you will be kindly suprised. Visit the Majakovkaja, Arbartskaja, Komsomolskaya, Prospekt mira, Slavjansky bulvar and Voborovy hory.;5;July 21, 2013
like palace!;Some of older stations are like palaces - marbor walls and pillars, bronze statures! Amazing! One of the kind! It is worth having a kind of metro tour there.But please be aware that it can get crowded in rush hours and very hot in summer because it's not air conditioned.;5;July 19, 2013
Highly over rated;I had great expectations but was quickly disappointed.  First of all it is very easy to get lost as NONE of the signs are in Latin letters, only Cyrilic.  Transfer points are very confusing although many people were very helpful.  I took a subway tour and one needs to understand that there are only a few grand stations, many look like old stations in NYC but far cleaner.  The handful that are shown are quite impressive.  Another that is annoying is that most of the subway cars are very old.  Many had no A/C and required windows to be open for air which made it quit noisy with the screeching of wheels.  On the other hand it is extremely cheap and it cost the same prices whether you go one stop or several.;2;July 18, 2013
Do it even if just for the experience;This was difficult as nothing is in English, however we asked and then we got lost and had to find our way back to the hotel. It is just so pretty in marble and walnut. The Russsians have a lot of class.;4;July 18, 2013
A wonderful surprise;Every station on every line is a work of art.  Marble, stone, paintings, statues, chandeliers, mosaics; each is different at each line and each stop.  We took a night tour of Moscow and a tour of the subway system was included.  Do not miss it.;5;July 17, 2013
Excellent value to see historic sites;The nominal entrance fee to the Metro makes this truly a great value to see such historic sites!   The Metro is a deep, deep descent underground, and many of the central stations have fantastic architecture.  Details include tiles or sculpted ceilings and chandeliers.   Bring small change or bills and buy a ticket from a vending machine at the entrance, with one or two trips as an easy way to see some of the main stations while visiting the city!;5;July 17, 2013
Excellent transport system;Cheap as chips to travel on and even with no Russian knowledge we managed to get from a to b relatively easily. Went the wrong way once but just went back on the next available train. No English speaking staff whatsoever though so you really need to work out what your doing before you set off ! Hand gestures work very well ;) Clean cheap and quick, more than you can say for a Russian taxi;5;July 16, 2013
Crowded but super efficient;The moscow metro signs are all in russian but not difficult to navigate. At big stations just be mindful of the exit . Helpful to rem that the way out is denoted by the sign Выход в Город. Also have an english and russian metro map both. I learned the russian alphabet - very easy compared to actually learning the language and it helps a lot when you are taking the metro. The metro is safe , super cheap and the best way way to travel in moscow esp since a lot of taxis will charge you more if you don't speak russian. There are ticket machines before entering the train everywhere and they have instructions in english.;4;July 16, 2013
Beautiful;We visited several metro stations, starting with Belarussaya (please excuse the spelling). The only time it was a bit quieter was late at night, around midnight. During the day it is very busy, and you need to push yourself in and out of the carriages - the train won't wait for you to enter or depart.The statues, murals and artwork are just amazing. Bronze statues, marble murals and stained glass windows, each depicting different aspects of Soviet life.;5;July 16, 2013
Moscow Metro;Lots of fun to ride even understanding no Russian it is not so difficult. Get a Russian / English map before you go.;5;July 16, 2013
Amasing architecture and the best way to travel Moscow;The Metro is a great way to get around the city and it is cheap (30 rubles) and the trains run about every two minutes. But the best is the spectacular design of many of the stations. It is unique because each station is a work of art, with reflective marble walls, high ceilings, grandiose chandeliers, ceramic walls, marble bench etc. - almost for free!;5;July 15, 2013
Art treasures in museum like subway stations;A tour of the Moscow subway system is a must for a visit to this city.  While I am sure it is easy to get around with the subway, I found it daunting because there is no English signage and I could not read the Cyrillic letters of the Russian alphabet.The construction of the subway was quite a wonder and the art treasures that hang on the walls to the beautiful chandeliers that hang from the ceilings in many of the stations.  I recommend that you take a guide for a one-two hour subway ride so that you can find your way around.;4;July 13, 2013
A definite must see;A visit to Moscow is not complete without a tour of the Metro. All are different and have to be the most beautiful Metro Stations in the world.;5;July 12, 2013
The best commute in a jammed Moscow;It's the only public transport with which you can rely upon and plan your time, as roads are overloaded in Moscow and traffic is horrible, on majority of lines brand new vagons with conditioning are used, they are clean and nice looking. At Red Metro Line they use retro trains for a change and put historic stories with pictures on the walls in several languages: Russian, English, Spannish so it feels like a museum.;4;July 11, 2013
Surprisingly wonderful !!;When my son told me that the metro stations were on our Moscow itinerary I was bemused to say the least but WOW !! These buildings are amazing !!The metro system itself is a marvel but to have these stations aswell is incredible.;5;July 11, 2013
The must see Moscow Metro Stations;The Metro is a great way to get around the city - it's cheap (30 rubles or $1.00 per trip) and trains run about every two minutes. Most of the attractions are a short walk from a Metro station.  Your best bet is to buy an eleven ride card that costs 300 rubles.  Buy it at one of the ticket windows (look for "Kacca" signs) but you'll likely need to write down on paper what you want. One final tip - once Inside the Metro system all of the directional signs and station names are only noted in Cyrillic - make sure you know the color of the line you want, the next station in the direction you want to go and the name of your destination station (in Cyrillic!). One of the treats of riding the subway is the spectacular design of many of the stations.  The system was developed relatively late (started in the 1930s and expanded greatly in the 1950s) driven by Stalin so his DNA is all over it.  Many of the stations have patriotic murals, ceiling mosaics and statues depicting Soviet might and hard working members of the proletariat.  It is a real throwback in time.After spending five days riding the system the following are my favorite stations:Mayakovskaya (Green Line): A temple to art deco with stainless steel, pink marble and gorgeous arches lining both sides of the platform.  The ceiling mosaics are also spectacular.  A real jaw dropper.Ploschad Revolyutsii (Blue Line): Dark marble columns cornered with bronze statues of Soviet "heroes" - military figures, farm workers, strong peasant women, steelworkers, etc.  It's good luck to rub the nose of the dogs.Novoslobodskaya (Ring Line): Stained glass murals built into the columns of the station.  Creates a bright and impressive image.Prospect Mira (Ring Line):  Large chandeliers, elaborate carved frescoes adorning the pillars and tiled ceilings make this one of my favourite stations.Komsomolskaya (Ring Line):  A beauty with marbled columns, yellow ceilings with painted frescoes.Enjoy your visit!;5;July 10, 2013
The Moscow Metro - Underground Art Galleries;A metro is by a purely functional space, the world over. The Moscow Metro is an exception to this generality. It is unique because each of its 188 stations is a work of art, with reflective marble walls, high ceilings, grandiose chandeliers, ceramic walls, marble benches and columns, and murals galore, “creating an artificial underground sun’. It was a show piece of the Soviet era showing casing the daily life, sports, agriculture, industry, science & technology – in fact every aspect of life in the Soviet Union and its achievements. We visited 3 metro stations – the Somolenskya, the Kievskya and Arabtskya stations, went down the the steep escalators and rode on the trains between these stations. The entrance of the Arabatskya staion is an imposing building. The standard fare is 28 roubles and once inside one can take rides on as many lines, for whatever duration of time – provided you don’t come out! A daunting task, as there is no toilets once you go undergrounds and no refreshments available. Vending machines, issue tickets, or they can be bought at the counter. Past the turnstile and you proceed underground on steep escalators, very step indeed; the deepest platform being 276ft underground! The works of art are located on the platforms of each station. The name of each station is written on the ceramic walls of and repeated at close intervals and visible from each compartment. A Male voice announces the next station moving towards the centre of Moscow, whilst female voice announcements are for stations away from the centre. On the walls and inside the trains colour coded route maps make it easy to find ones way about.A visit to the Moscow Metro is an unique experience and one can spend the whole day underground, but don’t forget to take drinking water and a snack !;4;July 10, 2013
Convenient Transportation for tourists in Moscow;Metro is the most convenient transportation in Moscow for tourists. However, there are like 11 lines of them and can be a bit confusing as all the metro station signs were in Russian, and since we didn't read Russian we needed a bit of time to figure it out whether we were at the right station. My suggestion is to count how many stations you have to go for once getting on. That helps. Also when you want to interchange to another line, finding another station could be tricky as they weren't that closed. I remember going back and forth and coming back at the same spot. We tried to ask the officials but they didn't speak English and just ignored us like we were not there. Anyway, still recommend to use the metro. All stations have their own magnificent decorations and architectures. The train can be loud when running and the doors slam hard.;3;July 9, 2013
How good is your Russian?;The Metro is brilliant and easy to follow once you identify the stations in Russian. Buying an 11 ride pass is the way we travelled and was absolutely brilliant for getting to everything we wanted.;4;July 9, 2013
Fast, efficient. beautiful!;This is one of the most amazing mass transit systems in the world.  It is fast (never waited more than 5 minutes for a train, even at night), extensive and some of the stations are beautiful.   But this metro is first and foremost a transportation system for millions of people rushing around, so it can be crowded and a bit overwhelming at rush hours.  And I'm coming from NYC!;5;July 8, 2013
A Unique Way to Take in Russian Culture;Spent one day riding the different lines on the metro.  Some of the stations are destinations and worth getting off at just to check out the architecture and art in the station itself.  Also interesting is the demographic change the further you ride out from the center.;5;July 8, 2013
One of the most efficient subway in the world;Trains come so quick,which is within 1.5-3mins, after one is gone. The stations and the interiors of  the trains are clean and neat. Spending time and taking photos in different stations are fun, because every stations has its own styles and characteristics. However, please don't touch any statues in some stations, since Russian people do not like it...just don't touch anyway...;5;July 8, 2013
What is all the Fuss About?;On TripAdvisor they have some really good pictures of clean, empty metro stations and they look cool... But in reality, most of the stations are crammed with people trying to catch a ride. It is not as sparkling clean as those pictures show.  To top it off, while standing there, every few minutes a 60's era train comes speeding into the station, halting quickly and then picks up the throngs of passengers.  With the people, dim lighting and trains, I don't see what gives this such a high rating... The fact is, you will probably be one of the passengers hurrying through and not noticing anything special and trying to count your stops since there is only Russian on all of the signs.  This is not signed very well for all the tourist who come through.;3;July 7, 2013
Best way to travel Moscow. Architecture simply amasing, too.;As a public transportation system it is simply the best way to navigate Moscow. It is cheap at 30 Rubles for a single ticket you can use to travel as far as you like and there are trains every 5 minutes. The network is vast, and its possible to travel to nearly anywhere in Moscow using it. On the downside, it is not wheelchair friendly as there are hardly any lifts present at the stations and if you are travelling with luggage then you will quickly become exhausted as there are staircases in nearly every station - this isn't unique to the Moscow metro, of course. Also the signage is all in Russian without English translations - or Latin alphabet translations - which makes navigation more difficult. The metro lines are colour coded, however some of the colours are quite similar (like red and brown) and it is easy to get confused. If Moscow wants to attract tourists outwith the Russian federation then it would be good to provide translations of signage.  The Metro is also a big tourist attraction, the architecture and design of the stations is simply stunning and depicts socialist realism with many statues of Russian figureheads, namely Lenin and other statues, murals and mosaics depicting events from history like the great patriotic war. The stations are finished in marble and are very clean without litter. If your visiting, make sure you take your camera.;4;July 7, 2013
Impressive!!!;Russia must have the deepest underground metro in the world!No matter the metros in Moscow or in St. Petersburg, the metro or say "subway" to be exact, are all like 30~50 meters down underground.We asked friends and got confirmation that these subways tunnels are also used as "bomb shelters" during the war. No wonder they are so deep!;4;July 7, 2013
No other subway like it anywhere!;The Moscow Metro should be high on anyones visit to Russia. We visited about eight or nine staions with our tour group. The stations are more like art galleries. A tour I will never forget.;5;July 7, 2013
Photographer's Paradise;I've mentioned elsewhere that as Russia is an emerging tourist destination and that most of the world now speaks English, if Russian authorities realised the gain to be made by having all signs written in the Latin alphabet as well as Cyrillic, the tourists would be even happier. So if you can master the Moscow Metro you can manage any Metro in the world!  Having said that, you MUST make the effort because every station is unique, beautiful, awe-inspiring.  Even if you only do it once, do it. Buy a ticket, get on and off at every station to admire & take photos and then travel back to your starting point.  If that's all you do, you'll have done something you won't be sorry for.;5;July 6, 2013
Worth a quick visit;It is somethind different to do and worth seeing. There are a few stops that deserve the visit. It is very loud so its good for a quick trip. The station with beautiful architectual design, sculptures and mosaics in the cealing. Clean, easy and not crowed on a Saturday morning...;4;July 6, 2013
Beautiful stations;The metro stations are amazing but also the frequency of the service is really impressive.  We never waited more than a minute for the next train.  Avoid travelling in the rush hour if you possibly can - Russians like to push and shove!;4;July 6, 2013
Not Overwhelmed;Having heard a lot about the Metro built in the 1930's I was expecting more than what we saw. There are a few stations with interesting art but all in the DC metro is more interesting. and other cities have interesting subway stations. The Louve station in Paris with objects of art on display to mention one. But you will no doubt travel a couple fo times on the Metro to see some of Moscow so you will make up your own mind.;3;July 5, 2013
Historic stations;One of oldest metros it's many stations are historic with beautiful paintings it is very deep at least 30 ft I presume but at platforms ventilation is excellent it is very busy;4;July 5, 2013
Most beautiful metro in the world !;It is most beautiful decoration metro system in the world, i think. Especially the circle lines - a must to see even if you are not using it to get around.;4;July 5, 2013
Super for Civil Engineering, Train and Architecture Buffs;Deep and beautiful, the Moscow Metro is a far cry from the New York or London style subway/metro.  Wherever one looks in the stations, escalators excepted, there is art, history and architecture everywhere.  One could easily spend days wandering the stations and simply marveling at how interesting and different from one another the stations are.;5;July 4, 2013
Great transportation mean;Though you do have to know how to read the language.We never waited more than 2 minutes for a train, at all hours including Saturday.;5;July 4, 2013
fast, but hot in summer;the best way to get around in town. safe and also no traffic jams. just it is too hot. even in most new trains the AC is already broken;4;July 3, 2013
Great;This is a must when visiting Moscow, not that hard and very cheap for ticket, don't attempt the roads as it is one big car park, some of the stations are absolutely brilliant if you like architecture and statues;5;July 2, 2013
wonderful;A great experience, both as a tourist - some stunning architecture and decoration - and as a traveller - clean and some of the most helpful and courteous people I have encountered.;5;July 1, 2013
Beautiful stations in the centre of Moscow;The stations are tourist attractions as well.  We hopped out of the train a couple of times just to view the stations.   Not too sure I could manage on my own, the directions don't seem as obvious as they are in London or Paris.   But - glad I had the experience.;4;June 30, 2013
Metro;The best way to get around Moscow. Quite difficult to navigate unless you have some knowledge of the Russian alphabet. Try counting stops and plan route in advance. Many stations are very beautiful to look at.;4;June 30, 2013
This is a must for visitors every station is different and would not look out of place in an art gallery;the vision of the designers and craftsmen to produce a stunning masterpiece underground......and not a piece of litter in sight;5;June 29, 2013
A must see on your trip;The architecture - Wow ! Unbelievably beautiful metro stations adorned by art, frescoes, mosaics, chandeliers and more.The cleanliness - I am sure the locals love the stations and keep them spotlessly clean. The service - Very frequent and never crowded, even during rush hour. A wonderful place to observe everyday life in MoscowSmells the same as other metros like Paris, London, NY.. Will take 60-90 minutes to see the top 5 stations. A must do. Buy the 5 trip ( for convenience) or 11 trip ticket ( at the cost of 10 trips). 3 day unlimited travel card needed for Tourists,like other countries.Unfortunately all signages are in Russian, but you get the hang of recognising the Russian alphabets after a bit. Feels like a treasure hunt !;4;June 29, 2013
Palaces for the people!;Before coming to Russia we had seen photos of beautiful metros, but somehow we imagined that it was just a few showcases we always saw - not true! There are many really amazing metros in Moscow, and since the run very frequently (every 2nd minute) it is easy to visit some of them. A good tip is to get on the brown circle line, because here they are all beautiful,  and then get on & off at every stop.;5;June 28, 2013
A Subway I could like!;Really the only real means to travel in Moscow, these subways were ornate with marble floors and walls. They were air conditioned, and had magnificent chandeliers. Be watchful of pick pockets on the main circle.;5;June 27, 2013
Great for a rainy day;Our private tour guide took us on a whirlwind tour of the Moscow metro stations while it rained outside.  Our entire family enjoyed it.;4;June 27, 2013
Take a guide;The Metro is well worth seeing. Go early in the morning to avoid the crowds (Moscovites do not seem to get up until at least 10am).  Take a guide who knows their city as you will get lost.  Virtually no English spoken and all signs are in Russian, not a hope unless you speak the language.  They are amazing and each one different from the next.  You could spend a whole day underground.;4;June 27, 2013
Bring your Cyrillic key;Amazing transportation system!  Some of the stations have beautiful marble and chandeliers.  The escalators move quickly so be prepared.  All of the writing is in Cyrillic, but you can figure out if you're at the correct track by looking on the wall adjacent to the tracks.;5;June 27, 2013
Horrible.;Smelly, gloomy and no English what-so-ever.  Even had a real hard time to find the metro station!!  If Russia wants more tourism, they really should improve the quality of service by providing English subtitle.  It is also crucial because not too many Russian can speak English.  Surprising that lot worse in Russia than in Czech Republic or Hungary.;1;June 26, 2013
Never wait for public transport again;ok, so it's not pretty or modern, but it goes like clockwork. I never waited for a train longer than 2 minutes. And while they may be crowded, they're never noisy. People watching is great. Just remember to learn your cyrillic letters so you can read the maps.;4;June 26, 2013
Very efficient and cheap with beautiful stations;As all the previous reviewers we found Moscow stations a work of art: statues, marble, mosaic. My husband and I used it for  about  a week and felt very safe. You can purchase a multiple trip card that you can use of buses and ferries as well. Tips: lines are colour coded, female announcer on train means the train is travelling away from the city and male announcer means train is travelling towards the city centre. Muscovites are very attentive and offer help when they see you studying a metro map. English speaking is not that common in Moscow. Look for young people with headphones. They do. We found people in uniform usually don't.;5;June 25, 2013
Just fantastic ! Here, again, you feel you are at the core of something that changed history.;I liked, of course, the aristocracy of the styles, the very conception of such type of metros, its being so representative of the spirit of the times, its incredibile diversification. I also liked the fact that, nowadays, as it is so crowded, it gives you the opportunity for seeing many human types of current times, of different generations.;5;June 25, 2013
Overflow of population;Every year the "rubber" Moscow holds more and more people. Who go to work from the regions. Naturally, all this people to use the metro. Neither despite the fact that the trains pull up every 30 seconds space inside train is still not enough! You have to sometimes skip 4-6 train, before you will be able to squeeze into the crowd sweaty and angry people. I can not imagine who might enjoy it!!!By the way, Rush Hour in metro around 24/7. Only late in the evening, around 9:00 pm, people become less. But it's getting dangerous, because immigrants from the Caucasus republics and just drunken hooligans. Don't use metro after 22:00 pm until mornig. And I not joking!;1;June 24, 2013
Underground Palaces;This is a lesson in history, national rpide and the collective will of over 10 million people who use the Moscow Metro daily. The marble and granite floors and walls interspersed with stained glass, chandeliers, paintings of Russian heroes and historical moments of glory, statues and steep escalators... ANd to think that Paris, London and New York actually pride themselves on their tube stations??? Moscow.. take a bow.. your city is great and your metros even greater..;5;June 24, 2013
Easier than it looks;I must I was intimidated by the prospect of using the Moscow Metro, but here are a few tips that will help make it easy to use this efficient service.- Estimate the number of trips you will need during your stay and buy a ticket with 20 trips for example for the greatest convenience, flexibility and economy.- Look up the costs of multiple tickets online so you know how much you will pay and indicate with fingers how many trips you want at the ticket office.- Press the ticket to the yellow circle readers at the barriers to access the trains. The number of remaining rides will be displayed.- Ensure you have a Metro map with both the English and Russian names of the stations.- Plan your journeys before you enter the station. Know what line number and colour you are looking for. The end destination of the line and the next station along from your departure station.- These things are invaluable in helping ensure you on the correct line  heading in the right direction. They are also very helpful when changing lines/stations.- Match the Russian name of the station to identify your destination.- Trains feature light systems indicating journey progress.- The next station can be found in green in the moving displays at the end of carriages.- Like London underground convention on escalators is to stand on the right and walk on the left.;5;June 22, 2013
The metro is incredible.;Difficult not to feel apprehensive when you go down in the escalator, not being able to see the bottom for what seems like ages. Our guide took us to about three stations and they live up to all that one has heard, the art, including paintings and sculptures. Very impressive form of transport. Warnings of pickpockets, must be valid, although we saw no evidence of it. No worse than any other big city I would have thought. Certainly the metro came well up to expectations.;5;June 22, 2013
Wow;9 million plus trips a day, it seemed to be a 24 hour peak time - a wonderfully run system where if you miss one train within a minute another came along.  The stations themselves are quite amazing, although the photos we had seen of them showed them in a much more flattering light, no crowds, special lighting etc but nevertheless, they are really remarkable.  We visited them without the 'help' of a guided tour and we are pleased we did.  You can hop on and hop off at different stations all for the cost of the one ticket - while you don't surface you're right.;5;June 22, 2013
New York and London  Could Learn From Moscow!;The Moscow Subway Stations are works of art, appointed in marble, each one different and all a visually uplifting experience.  We enjoyed traveling through the City on the Metro for sightseeing almost as much as the sights themselves!  Superb;5;June 21, 2013
Bizarre andBeautiful- Metro Museums!;Research the metro stops which offer Musuem like displays and hop on and hop off. This has to be seen to be believed. The Russians are so patient and kindly towards visitors looking and stopping to marvel.If you use the metro buy a 5 journey ticket for 150 Rub. as opposed to a single ticket.;5;June 21, 2013
Amazing;Pay the 15 Ruble fare at the kiosk, this will allow you to ride the Metro all day if you so wish, however you need to go to the brown "circle line" once on this line you can jump on and off at the train ateach station and marvel at "these places for the people" built by Stalin.;4;June 20, 2013
People Palace!;It's really worthy to visit the most magnificent subway stations in the world. Some of them like Kievskaya, Kurskaya, Arbatskaya. Smolenskaya and Revolutskaya are best of all.;5;June 19, 2013
Cheap and best way to move around exploring Moscow;Metro ride in Moscow would be a challenge for non-Russians. However most of the color coded lines intersecting with the # 5 circular brown color line like cutting a pie; so is easy for the multiple transfers if you are familiar with your directions. City center is well accessible from all directions as well. One thing you must know that the station names are in Cyrillic; so using a printed metro map with two languages is highly recommended. There are signages posted at the station platform track walls while you are facing them. If you not sure which platform(1 or 2) to get on just look at this wall to be sure the direction of the metro going to. Inside of the platform are signages indicating where to transfer to which color lines either at this stop and the next . For the self-guided foreigner travelers memorizing a few Cyrillic characters are helpful, and of course count the numbers of the stops will do! Transferring lines will require you to either go up a staircase or down an escalator. If you get confused and end up taking a really long escalator, you are heading towards the station exit. For the most of cases you would have to buy another ticket to enter. The entering point to the platform always has a glass enclosed booth with staff monitoring the escalator traffic movements on a computer, so the exit escalator will not have monitoring booth since your are exiting. Taking metro rides using only one metro ticket and do multiple transfers to visit a few older metros such as Komsomolskaya, Mayakovskaya, Kievskaya, Park Kultury are actually fun to do,you can adore the Communist Era propaganda arts on the walls and Lenin's busts are visible in these metros.  Each Metro ride is 30 rubles disregard the distance. You can also buy a multiple rides(at least 2 rides for round trip) card at the station to save time. Automated machines all have English to help your purchase. There is also Metro map posted inside of the metro cars and large one at the station wall, all with Cyrillic and Romanized characters. Language barrier is not a big deal, have questions, ask young people, and point at the map for where you want to go. I used this link to help me while riding the metro. http://engl.mosmetro.ru/flash/scheme01.html  http://www.artlebedev.com/everything/metro/map2/;4;June 19, 2013
practical advice using metro;Yes, it is incredibly efficient. Yes it is worth visiting some stations as destinations in their own right.  Navigation can be a challenge!  All signs are in cyrillic script.  So unless you can easily translate from tourist maps which are often NOT in script, you need to navigate by character recognition.... Identify the cyrillic script name from your map then match characters on the signs. Even this may not be easy due to the fonts used. Next...the announcement s on board are very difficult to understand, and stations often don't have names evident as you arrive, so count the number of stops!Finally, to exit....follow the script exit signs...but to work out which exit...guess...its part of the fun!  Popping out and seeing Kremlin or Bolshoi is fun!The metro is really cheap....60p per journey.  Busy, yes...but brilliant value.;4;June 18, 2013
Easy to navigate, but...;You absolutely *must* count stations. They aren't marked the same way as, say, the Tube. Plus, unless you're thoroughly comfortable with Cyrillic letters, by the time you've figured out where you are the train is moving on. Also, pay attention to whether you've gone left or right to reach the platform. Otherwise you may come out on the wrong side of the building and think you're lost... <g>On the other hand, it's easy to navigate once you've used the it a couple of times.;4;June 17, 2013
Fun with an art deco flare;I had heard about the Moscow Metro, it was really everything you read about it. The station are decorated with all sorts of art. Yes, most of it has to do with Communism, but it was worth just riding the circle line and getting off at each station to admire the art work.;5;June 16, 2013
The accuracy;What I like in the Moscow Metro is the accuracy: while walking on the platform, 3-4 minutes, three trains went in and out. Every minute, a train.It is possible the visit the main stations.: it is worthwhile !!;5;June 16, 2013
Metro great and cheap way to get around Moscow;The metro is very efficient and trains come every couple of minutes, so one never has to wait long. Tickets can be bought from the self-serve electronic ticket cashiers at the entrances of the stations and there is an English option available when buying these. machines for the moment only take cash (notes and coins). Tickets cost 30 Roubles for a single trip and one taps the card when passing the turnstiles to get in. The station names are all in Russian with no Roman Alphabet equivalent, however most maps will have both Cyrillic and Roman versions on them. Each platform is home to one line only, and the signs overhead will indicate which stations the train will stop at. One can figure out from that and cross-checking the metro map, for which direction to go.;4;June 15, 2013
a fun side trip;every tourist should partake in the local transportation, and the metro adds an element of fun and scenery. Both functional to get around and touristy to see stuff.;4;June 15, 2013
A feat of engineering;What a great way to move along in the city sure its a little crowded but what do you expect when the daily ridership is over 8 million . A guide is probably the best way to get comfortable as there is not really any english signs and if you cant read cyrillic alphabet it cant get a little confusing not saying impossible but daunting i was lucky enough to be able to speak russian and read it quite well so that made the metro easy to use.;5;June 14, 2013
Beautiful and efficient;I have never travelled on an underground system anywhere in the world that works as efficiently as Moscow's metro system.  We never waited any more than 2/3 minutes for a train to arrive.  The stations are works of art with such a variation in design.  I would suggest spending some time visiting a few of the metro stations  as it is quite an experience.  it is very inexpensive to travel around on the metro and they are also spotlessly clean and litter free.;5;June 13, 2013
Beautiful and clean;We did the Metro Stations as we were going around the city.  As your Metro ticket covers multiple changes you can do this easily on your own.;4;June 12, 2013
Moscow metro;Fantastic. You can visit the stations on you own or look for a trip. This option let you know how the station were changing along the years;5;June 12, 2013
Underground Art Gallery;Our group of 10 was guided through 3 of the Metro stations in Moscow, which is just as well as I would have found it extremely difficult to read the names of the stations! However, it could provide entertainment for a full day if you got lost so it's certainly a "must do" in Moscow. The stations are crowded but the locals know where they are going and are very orderly and quiet so it's possible to take your time and enjoy the sculpture, mosaics and stained glass that we found in the stations we stopped at. There is no graffiti or litter and the people of Moscow are obviously very respectful of their surroundings.The works of art are magnificent and the cost of a Metro ticket is low so it's very good value for money and an unforgettable experience. It would be an especially good activity for a very cold or wet day!;5;June 12, 2013
Unique;In many ways it is a true extension of their culture, pertaining to which leader was in power as to which station was being built. A must that can be done in a short time.;5;June 11, 2013
Fast and awesome;Even more frequent than the NYC Subway.  Excellent.   Beautiful architecture.  A true highlight of the city.  LOVED it.;5;June 11, 2013
Great, But The Second Best Metro In Russia;The history, art, and soul of Russia are all visible in the Moscow Metro. It is a beautiful trip, and quite cheap (about $1 US).  Take a map that shows English and Cyrillic, or keep track on the map as you move from station to station or you risk getting lost.  I had one experience where a drunk rider came up to me after taking a picture of a station and told me that he didn't like tourists and that I should go home and stop taking pictures, but that could take place in NYC or anywhere else.  Plan your trip, and if you are also in St. Petersburg, do their metro too.  It is cheaper and deeper and just as beautiful, but its stations show both the English and Cyrillic names.;5;June 9, 2013
The Moscow Metro a wonder to behold;Many great cities have a Metro or Tube, Subway, call it what you will but Moscow has the daddy of them all.To say it is an eye opener would be an understatement, every station is different from the last one. They are all huge, well lit and very well laid out and it is impossible to get lost. They vary from stainles steel modernism through bronze statue heaven to art Deco and Renaissance, the fares are cheap, 30 roubles about 60 pence, just stay inside and for this money you can stay all day, it is a great way to spend a few hours.;5;June 8, 2013
Learn your Cyrillic;Tip: Learn your Cyrillic alphabet before heading into the vast Moscow Metro. Unlike St Petersburg's Metro, nothing is in English. Having said that... take two hours and go from station to station, especially along the circular line and the green line. Marvel at the architecture and be sure to pack you walking shoes. Transfer stations could be as far as 10 minutes brisk walk apart.;4;June 7, 2013
Rush Hour in Moscow;Fast, frequent transit. Beautiful crystal chandeliers, marble benches. CLEAN andcheap way to get around Moscow. If you've trained in NYC rush-hour subway, it's apiece of cake---only it helps to read Russian, or else count the stops.;4;June 6, 2013
What station is this?;Although the metro is an incredibly easy mode of transportation the lack of signage and handout maps made it very trying.  I can put up with the lack of English but as you come into the station the station name wasn't always visible anywhere.  Either the sign was small or hidden by in incoming/outgoing train so you had to resort to counting stops.;3;June 5, 2013
Efficient and Beautiful;Pros: Straightforward transfers. Movement about entire city. Many locations. Beautiful stations. Cheap (1 dollar one way). Efficient. Fast. Trains come often. Metro routes are color coded. Cons: Stations are all in Russian. Crowded. Transfers require you to go up or down stairs. Summary: A simple, fast, and convenient way to get around moscow. Much easier than taking a car and you don't have to worry about traffic. If you can't read Russian, all you need to do is plan out your root and be ready to recognize some basic symbols to figure out which station to go to and where to transfer. Download a map on your phone and you should be fine.;4;June 5, 2013
best to bring a map in both English and Russian;The Moscow Metro is easy enough to navigate but best to bring a map in both English and Russian.  The signage is not consistent between stations or between cars.  Counting the number of stops is often the better option to determine the destination.  The trains run every two minutes so do not hesitate to get off to determine current station.;5;June 5, 2013
Masterpieces!;Spend a few hours getting off and on at different stations to look at the architecture - many beautiful stations with paintings, mosaics and stained glass. Easy to get around once you learn to remember the colour line you need, its number, and write down the names in the Russian alphabet of the stations you want!;5;June 4, 2013
Very interesting;I saw most of the metro stations to be seen (especially the on on the brown circle line): I could feel the soviet atmosphere watching these stalinist decorations, they are like museum. It's possible to take picture and no policeman will say anything (unlike St.Petersburg, where I was fined 100 rubles (in 2007) for taking a picture in one of the metro stations. It was all very interesting;5;June 4, 2013
Read the tutorial on the forum pages;The system is so efficient and easy to use if you know what the signs look like.  I did not know all the street names so I brought a compass to help pick the best exits.  We had no trouble making the system work for us.;5;June 3, 2013
Fun for 35 Ruble;Jump in to the Subway and enjoy it. Don't miss Kalanchevskaya, Prospect Mira, Novoslobodskaya, Belorusskaya, Mayakovskaya, Pushinskaya, Teatralna, Arabatskaya, Smolenskaya, Kievskaya and Park Pobedy stops. For 35R you will get lots of fun, a bit of Russian history and culture.;5;June 3, 2013
Simple Tips;Lots has been written here is the simple guide.Buy your tickets , in 1,3,5,11 blocks , very cheap 5 trips is 150 roubles.You only swipe a ticket on entry, so go where you like .Print 2 maps in colour, one in "English" one in Cyrillic.Plan your destinations and know the names to look out for,Lines are colour coded.Look for Cyrillic name of station and go left or right platform.It's daunting at first but you get the hang of it within a few trips.Don't forget you'd maps.Good Luck;5;June 3, 2013
Still awesome;I discovered Moscow's metro about 14-years ago and it still is awesome.  The architecture and monument to great Soviet achievements in an almost museum like situation is unlike any metro elsewhere.Remember, Moscow's metro carries more people on a dail basis than the combined totals of the London Underground and New York Metro... EIGHT MILLION people use it daily, so it can get very busy at rush-hour and pickpockets have been known to operate that these times... targetting unwary tourists 'snapping' the architecture!  It is quite well policed, though.;4;June 3, 2013
Lost in the Metro;We took a tour of the Metro before we went on our ownNo one speaks English, ended up on the wrong track, Had togo outside and ask a Policeman how to getto our Hotel.Very difficult as people don't want to help in the Metro.;3;June 2, 2013
A fantastic self tour. Costs R30, Value Priceless;If a visitor to Moscow does only one thing the R30 (less than US$1) Metro ticket and a ride around the #5 dark red Koltsevaya circle line provide an unforgettable experience with plenty of Stalinist grandeur. Getting around is easy without a guide, just stop at every stop, it takes a couple fo hours, and get off where you got on. Absolute musts are Novokusnetskaya opened in 1943, with benches from Cathedral of Christ the Savior and mosaics of military heroes. Novoslobodskaya has stained glass murals brought from Riga. Several stations date from the 1930's and each is delightful. No two are alike.;5;June 2, 2013
Moscow Metro;Ok, one word time.... WOW, ok second word... AMAZING. The art in the metro makes you wonder how great this city really is. Even if your not an art lover, this will amaze you... the size and how deep the metro goes will also amaze you. Carry a metro map with English and Russian cause the metro is mostly in Russian.;4;June 2, 2013
Impressive;It's impressive how many gallery and lines are. Some areas are really nice. Mobile stares are one of the longer i've ever seen ! Beware of pickpockets, in 3 days we have seen 2 in action!;4;June 1, 2013
Unbelievable!;Go with guide who can explain Stalin's motivation for building these beautiful stations and point out everywhere his image has been removed from the artwork.  There is a lot of symbolism incorporated in the art but the stations can be enjoyed just for their amazing beauty.  It really puts New York subways to shame!;5;May 30, 2013
Easier to navigate than it seems!;The subway lines have different colour squemes, making it easy to plan ahead your trip. Once you are at a station, you can go to the desired line by following the corresponding colour of that line (if the station has more than one subway  line).Once you get to the desired line you will always have a choice of which direction to go: side 1 track or side 2 track (always located side by side). You can notice that the signs show, in eqch direction, the name of the first stop after the current station for that direction, making it easy to select the desired one.;5;May 30, 2013
Sunday Visit;If you want to see the mosaics, paintings and statues then I suggest a Sunday visit as all the stations seem very busy every other day and just fairly busy on Sunday. They do not only look impressive but trains seem to run more or less continuously. so never a need to rush as another is only a minute behind. Magic for getting around Moscow particularly with the flat fare.;4;May 29, 2013
Ornate and beautiful;I had heard the metro was unparalleled with its decadent halls, but seeing was believing. Read up on the top ones ad make sure you have your Cyrillic map at the ready (as it's all in Cryrillic!). It's easy once you get the hang of it, although navigating the big interchanges when trying to get to street level can be interesting!;5;May 29, 2013
Beautiful and easily get lost if you are not familiar with their wording;The metro system is rather complicated at first, but once you got familiar with it, it is simple and efficient. The train is very deep under the ground and the time to go down via the escalator may be more than 3 minutes in some stations.;1;May 28, 2013
Love travelling this;The architecture is amazing as is the depth it is at. At first it is very intimidating as everything is in cryillic but you will soon get the hang of it. Get a map from your hotel.It is best to remember that the lines are colour coded and either side of a platform so just follow the colour and you will get to the right line then find out which way you need to go.The best bit of the trip is either gazing at the architecture, the escalators or the trains feeling like you are taking off when they pull away from the station - I honestly felt like I was in a porche pulling away!Needless to say its cheap and with the horrendous traffic in Moscow its the best and easiest way to get around.;5;May 28, 2013
Over-hyped;Having used the Moscow metro to get around the city for a few days I am puzzled as to why so many people rave about it.  It certainly has some stations that are well worth seeing as examples of a confident style of Soviet architecture that just stops short of being over-blown. And the trains are frequent and reliable. But it has many downsides. Most trains are old and uncomfortable. Signage is terrible - so that even if you can read cyrillic it is difficult to be sure which station you are coming into, or where to go for interchange. No journey can be made without negotiating several flights of stairs. Ticket machines are primitive - not accepting anything but coins and the smallest notes and only issuing one- or two- journey tickets. And stations are far apart (by, say, London or Paris standards) so that almost any journey involves a long walk to or from the station. And even outside rush hours it can get very crowded. It is good, but it is dated - and as a transport system it is far from being wonderful.;3;May 28, 2013
World Class transport system with World Class architecture;This is the only way to travel around Moscow if your journey is not walkable. It costs RUR30 ($1) for a single journey of any length and duration. Tickets get even cheaper if bought in bulk. The architecture of some down stations is breathtaking. Get a metro map to understand the different lines, very important to understand where to get off as it can be challenging when written in Russian script, I suggest t, count down the number of stops to know where to get off.;5;May 27, 2013
magnificent;i love the metro of moscow. not only it is despite the number of passengers using it on a daily basis far cleaner than most european metros but also is definitely a great way to travel around the city, discovering stations which by themselves represent history. just avoid the peak times :-);5;May 26, 2013
The best Metro stations anywhere.;Most guided tours will take you down the Metro for a large price. Don't take the tour...go by yourself...it's a bit adventurous but worth it.  Buy a ticket from the Kassa, have a metro plan, and go to some of those stations which are highlighted in guide books as being of the greatest interest. The metro is the cleanest one I have ever seen, trains are very frequent and very clean, and people willing to help if required.   One ticket is worth one trip to anywhere...if you come out, then you'll need to buy another ticket.Some of the stations are fantastic with wonderful Soviet heros striking wonderful Soviet poses!;5;May 26, 2013
Go for the circle line;Go for this simple itinerary on the brown circle line, every stop is stunning:ArbatskayaKievskayaKrasnopresnenskayaBelorusskayaNovoslobodskayaProspect MiraKomsomolskayaTaganskaya;4;May 26, 2013
A huge musseum for 1 dollar;Just pay the entrance to the metro and glance around all the magnificent stations that are docorated which such oppulcence. One entrance will let you ride all day if you want;5;May 26, 2013
the most beautiful metro I've seen;The most convenient way to travel in Moscow - there're no traffic problems. It's quite crowdy, but it's nothing scary, I believe. Also when the train's doors close - they really close.;5;May 25, 2013
Great Transport system;The metro system was a quick and easy way to get about. It was cheap with each single journey costing 30 rubles but this could involve umpteen line changes with no extra charge. There are automated ticket machines in the metro foyers. Some allowed for multiple pass tickets to be bought eg 11 journeys for 300 rubles. However most of the machines I saw allowed a 1 or 2 journey pass to be purchased. All of the machines I used had an option for English language which was handy. You definitely need to peruse a metro map in advance but the lines are all colour coded. The main problem was that the metro map gave station address in both Cyrillic and non Cyrillic version whereas the actual station had Cyrillic name only. So either count the stops you need or check out the shape of the initail and last letters of your required destination as a quick ready reckoner that you are getting off at the right place. However if you do alight at wrong station wait 2 mins and another train will be along so no worries.  The metro stations themselves were worth visiting in their own right as so beautiful. The guide books have a top ten of metros but I expect that is personal choice. I did like Ploschad Revolutsii with its bronze statues but others were equally stunning almost as if you were wandering through a grand hallway in a  stately home. It is definitely worth exploring.;5;May 24, 2013
Metrotastic;Buying tickets - no problemWorking out which metro line - no problemWorking out the signage - a big problem so make sure you know how to recognise basic words like EXIT in Russian. All signs are in Russian with no English signage at all. Also, if you suffer from heights beware - some of the escalators must be 150m long, going steeply underground.;5;May 23, 2013
Totally one of its kind.  Must see!  Take a round trip on the "circle line"...;When I 1st heard sightseeing at the Moscow Metro, it sounds a bit strange.  And from the practical sense, how to start or where to start.  Even the hotel reception staffs can not name particular stations...When we got there, we r as lost as it can be.  It's ALL in Russian with NO ENGLISH.  We start to wonder how to get to places we want by Metro...Well things work out eventually, by following steps:-1) Read the station names by the 1st few letters.2) The various lines & direction... try to recall the same logics as the London or NY tube.3) A good start would be taking a round trip on the "circle line".  Drop off whenever we think that platform looks good.  We discovered at least 3 very impressive (like a Museum / showcase hybrid) and others interesting.4) Another good point for Circle Line is that there's "flashing" stations indicator inside the train.  This is  not available in some other lines What do u expect...i) It's OLD.  Build in 1920'sii) Many statues and mosaic as decoiii) tiled by marble in most stations.  Also found Greek pillars and die-cast metal deco.  Certain sections looks like a museum (showcase to capitalist during the communist era, I guess.)iv) efficient service.You won't see it elsewhere.Metro ticket - we bought a 20 trips stored value ticket, that can be used by multiple persons.;5;May 22, 2013
Highlight of Moscow!;The subway is terrific.  Not only do the train come fast (20 seconds to 2 minutes depending on if it is rush hour), but the stations are amazing.  There are several stations with exceptional artwork.  It is easy to get around and only costs 30 rubles to ride.;5;May 22, 2013
Simply the best metro in the world;I've travelled on a few around the world over the last 25 years but this metro has to be seen to be believed.  Only Hong Kong comes close.  The stations are immaculate, the trains very fast/clean/regular.  Some stations are like museums with stunning statues, brilliant architecture and murals.  The metro maps are easy to follow and lines are colour coded. Do not believe the guidebooks that say the metro is difficult to negotiate.  Although the trains are busy, I travelled at peak times all this week and never once felt hemmed in.;5;May 21, 2013
Wow!;Beautiful Metro. Every station as a unique design and theme. It can get very crowded, especially at peak times of the day. Generally easy to use the metro. Would advise just looking at the Cyrillic Alphabet a bit, so that you can pronounce the places that you think your going to... Lots of fun and should definitely be experienced by all tourists in Moscow!;5;May 21, 2013
A real experience;No trip to Moscow is complete without a ride on the famously beautiful and deep tube system.  Admittedly it may seem a little daunting at first, however you will soon get the hang of it.We were lucky enough to go to a number of stations.  As well as being mindbogglingly deep, some of them are absolutely stunning.  The art work on the walls, the murals, the ceilings, it's like no other tube network.If you have a real interest in visiting the top stations, there are many guide books and websites which have listed the best.  We just enjoyed turning up and being surprised!;4;May 19, 2013
Most opulent subway in the world;Words can not accurately describe the unique and glamorous Metro stations. Each one is different. Our guide reminded us that the words etched into the walls were often propaganda. Today one can admire in the amazement of what that meant to people. I would suggest doing your homework in advance to know which ones are the most popular to visit.A single journey ticket is 30R or about US$1. You can purchase them from an automated machine as there is also an English option on there.;5;May 19, 2013
Be prepared to get lost!;Luckily we had a Russian Guide just so we could experience this marvellous system.  The underground is full of art deco statues and facades.Each station is different.All have steps but also the highest escalators I've ever seen and very steep.For the fastest and cheapest way around Moscow, the Metro is not to be beaten.Just go grab a seat and you'll find Locals will talk to you and even offer their seats if you are older.  Beware of quickly closing doors!;5;May 19, 2013
Better than the London Tube!;The decor on the Metro is spectacular and well worth exploring. We had travelled on it before our group organised visit which took in the stations with the most impressive decor.;5;May 18, 2013
Beautiful;I've heard about the Moscow metro stations my whole life and they did not disappoint.  In some stations, there are mosaics on the ceiling all in the correct perspective.  There are plane flying over your head, apple trees with ladders to climb to pick the apples, parachutists falling through the air looking like they might land on you.  The one, and maybe only, thing Stalin got right.  The ones in St Petersburg are also beautiful, maybe even a little better.  Each station is different, probably each by a different artist.;5;May 17, 2013
Stations are Museums by itself;Most metro stations in Central Moscow are museums by themselves. There are brilliant sculptures and many more pieces of art effects. It is must visit. Spend at least half day if not more to visit these stations;5;May 16, 2013
The most artistic metro in the world!;Moscow metro is the most artistic metro in the world! Where else you'll find stations decorated with paintings, mosaics or sculptures? What to speak about special trains which make you to feel yourself as in Tretyakov Gallery!;5;May 16, 2013
Its Public Transport don't pay to be shown it - just buy a ticket!;Most of the metro stations have been well designed and are mini works of urban art.  Revolutionary Square was my favourite you've just got to rub those brass statues.  Travel around and find your own favourite.  There are trips when you can pay to be taken around but why would you want to do that. For 28 roubles you buy a ticket and you can stay down there all day !;4;May 14, 2013
Fast way to get to places;It's the only option to travel fast around Moscow at any hour when metro is operating.Of course it is not as comfortable as taxi or personal car - there is no conditioning in most of trains, it smells in some trains, there are tons of people in peak-hours (and if you do not know your way you'll be carried with the crowd).So if you are traveling in peak-hours, have several options and your priority is speed - then I'd suggest to go with metro;5;May 14, 2013
Getting around in the Metro;The pros of taking the Metro are tremendous to get around Moscow.  You do need a good map to get around.  The cons are the names of the stations are in Cyrillic.  I counted the number of stops I had go before I got off.  They have an electrical board over the doorway which tells you where you are at.  I had to do this for the stop at Partisanskaya where they have a flea market named izmailovo or izmailovski market.  That is where you buy your souvenirs...a lot cheaper than Red Square...and you can negotiate the price.  Easy to buy your ticket at the KACCA...you should buy 2 trips...one to get on...the other to return.  I got on and returned to Plaschad Revolutsii from Partizanskaya after doing my business there.  They have a scanner at the turnstile and you put your electronic card on it and when it turns green...you're in business.  There are signs above to tell you which way to go to your destination.  If you have had experience with any other Metro, you'll have an edge.  The Moscow Metro is very efficient because you don't wait more than 2 minutes if you happen miss the train like I did.  If you have the time, experiment with it and you'll be an expert before you know it.   Another tip is not to be timid getting in or leaving the train.  People just wedge in after passengers get off...then you zoom in literally.;4;May 9, 2013
Amazing part of Moscow;Being a Londoner I am we'll versed with the tube. But the Moscow Metro is a different experience. The architecture is awesome and well worth a day looking round all the different stations (as we did on a rainy day) It's cheap- buy a book of 10 journeys for around £2.50 from the ticket machine, and really easy to navigate.   For such an expensive city, with a language barrier, it's  refreshing to enjoy the underground!;4;May 8, 2013
Like a Museum;Each station we stop had different kind of art: sculpture, paints, mosaic! Everything is soooo nice! Also the lamps. And the Metro itself, it 2 minutes one train!!!;5;May 8, 2013
The best subway;Absolutely reliable and efficient. It gets packed during the peak hours but you will get a train every 40-50 seconds. It is by far the best subway system I have been so far but the noise in the train may be overwhelming. And it has an easy-to-understand map;5;May 7, 2013
Fun;If you can find your way in curillic, be sure to visit some of the metrostations downtown. Palaces for the people, truly! My favorite is Partisanskaya.;5;May 7, 2013
Fascinating if you choose to visit the right stations;A visit to Moscow is not complete with a trip around the Metro system.A couple of tips before you do travel:•	Tickets are bought before travel from the ticket booth (“Kacca”).  If you don’t speak Russian just hold up your fingers showing how many trips you want to take.•	If you only get off the Metro to look at the station and don’t exit to the street then you can see all of the stations you want and it will only got you the price of one ticket (RUB30 or £0.70).•	If you’re uncertain of how to get about I’d recommend planning which stations you want to see (my recommendations are below) before setting out.•	It’s worth carrying a map of the Metro system with you and I found that one in Russia is more useful than one in English because all the signs on the Metro are only in Russian.So many of the stations on the Moscow Metro are beautiful but most of these are on the circle line (line number five/the brown line).  My personal favourites are Mendeleevskaya (Менделеевская), Belorusskaya (Белорусская), Ploshad Revolyutsii (Площадь Революции) and Kievskaya (Киевская) but there are many more that are worth visiting.  If you have time do a lap of the circle line and get off at every station for a look around (the Metro runs every couple of minutes so you never have to wait long).;5;May 6, 2013
it is not only a metre it is a artefact;it is easy to find directions very well organizednot cheap thoughthere is a ring line which goes around moscow city and connects every metro line to each other;5;May 4, 2013
Get a good map!;Make sure you have a good metro map with the station names in Cyrillic, otherwise it's virtually impossible to work out where you are going!  One you have that sorted it's easy peasy.  The automatic ticket machines have instructions in English.  Cheap, efficient, fun and beautiful way to get around.;4;May 3, 2013
a wonderful metro!;If you are staying in Moscow, I fully encourage you to take the metro to get around.  It is very foolproof (especially if you can read Russian) and beautiful!  And even if you can't read Russian, I think you can manage.  Some of the most beautiful stations are, in my opinion:  Kievskaya (Ukrainian peasant motifs), Belorusskaya (similar, but for Belarus), Novoslobodskaya (multicolour stainglass!), Komsomolskaya (palace-like), Ploshad Revolutsii (awe-inspiring revolutionary statues), and Taganskaya (pretty light blue).  One of the cool ones that is more out of the way is Autozavodskaya - it has giant mosaics of factory workers!  I was in Moscow for a month, for work, and I took the metro often.  It was a pleasure, compared to taking the metro/subway in other cities, where it is more boring and less dramatic!;5;May 2, 2013
incredible;the architecutre and statues in it, its beautiful, and huge. take your time, bring your camere and explore, havent seen any metro stations like this before;4;May 2, 2013
You have to include this in your trip...;Moscow metro stations are so great, and full of history. Many of them just must be visited. It"s a first time in my life I stepped out in a metro station (Belorusskaia), not because it was where I had to stop, but because the station is so interesting you step out, look around, take pictures, and then wait for the next train to go to your destination...;5;May 2, 2013
Absolutely the best in the world!;Don't forget your camera when going underground in Moscow. It's the cleanest, fastest and the most beautiful metro's I've ever seen! Part of Russian history. More museum than public transportation.;5;May 2, 2013
Metro;Very efficient method of travel around Moscow. Safe and punctual, it's the best way to get around. Download the Metro App for navigation. It's in Russian, but after a bit of practice, you'll find it easy to use.;5;April 30, 2013
A marvel;The variety and styles of metro mean that you have lots to visit. They are well looked after. The bronzes in the metro in Revolutionary Square are superb. You don't often see a women holding a rifle in a bronze.;5;April 28, 2013
Easy and cheap!;Bought a 10-trip card to avoid the need to queue and communicate at the kiosk so often (only complicated by asking for 4 of the 10-trip cards in stumbling Russian). Then it was a seamless experience - boop through the turnstiles easily, never waited more than 2 minutes for a train.Study cyrillic before you go - takes very little time to become familiar with transliterating it. This will make your trip so much easier, as there's little English signage. Expect to be patient reading the overhead sign with the station names so you can work out which platform you need - that's when the knowledge of cyrillic comes in useful, it would be much slower puzzling raw gobbledegook.The famous decorated stations - go with modest expectations and you'll be pleased. We saw 6 of the recommended ones, each had a nice feature like some stained glass murals or a Lenin frieze, they were nice but not "wow".;4;April 28, 2013
Some things Soviet are unbeatable;Shifting 9 million people every day. Trains every 90 seconds. Accident free. Spacious, sumptuous 'halls'. Helpful staff and fellow passengers. Cheap transport (60 pence and you can stay there all day). Take time to admire the decor, and do some people-watching. There's nowhere better to appreciate the Muscovite ladies' desire to be well-dressed.Everything the London Tube isn't.;5;April 27, 2013
Beautiful and Efficient;One thing I miss about Moscow is the great public transportation. Below is my rundown of the subway.The good: The system is simple. There are no express or local trains, the trains don’t skip stops (as they seem to do at random in London). The system is fast. Trains seem to come literally every minute, maybe even every 30 seconds. If you live in Moscow then go to NY the wait between trains will seem unbearable. Moscow’s trains seem to run faster during off-peak hours than NY’s during rush hour. If you live in Moscow and take the subway in London you’ll get so frustrated you’ll want to throw yourself in front of the train (if it ever comes). Despite a lack of express trains, you can still get from end to end of the city quickly and there are multiple line crossings in the center to facilitate travel.The bad: The train stops are announced in garbled Russian. It took me many months of living there before I could understand what the conductor was saying. You cannot see the name of the station you are in from every window. In NY (and I think in London) if you are at a stop and not sure where you are you can look out of the window and clearly see the name of the station from anywhere in any train car. Not the case with Moscow. I would say about a quarter of the time I could not see the name of the station and coupled with the announcer’s garbled message I got lost a few times when I first moved there. ** However, now they are increasingly using new cars that make clear computerized announcements in both Russian and English and that have a display inside the car showing you the stop you are approaching. I’m not sure how long until all cars have this technology.The ugly: Be prepared to meet some interesting characters on the train. 95% of the people on the train will be normal everyday folk and about 25% very friendly to a foreigner needing some assistance. Then you’ve got the drunks. Public intoxication is much more prevalent in Russia than the US and the subway offers drunkards a good place to hang out. Still, I consider the subway to be safe as the drunkards tend to stick to themselves.The pretty: I know the saying (movie title) doesn’t include “the pretty” but I decided to add it (rather than put this in the good). The Moscow subway system is just that. It is pretty, or beautiful. The architecture, colors, cleanliness, etc, all make you feel like you’re in a museum. I won’t go on and on about it, you can youtube it or read the thousands of other reviews on it. I just wanted to reiterate it here.;5;April 26, 2013
Metro Stations--Scenic and Clean;When in Moscow, you have to ride the metro and see the architectural differences in the stations.  Many are gaudy, but most are beautiful. They are "way down" because they were built as bomb shelters by Koba.  The trains come every two minutes during the day and every five minutes until 11 pm.  The only negative is the subway ride itself--usually very crowded in central Moscow (think sardines in a can).  If you miss the Metro, you have missed Moscow.;4;April 25, 2013
Stunning!;Definately the most picturesque metro in the world. Easy to navigate your around if you can read some Russian. Every station is different and has its own story. Unfortunately there are some unsavoury characters on the metro and it is not uncommon to see drunks and beggars. I had my phone stolen at one of the stations so make sure all belongings are in a zipped up bag close to you.;4;April 25, 2013
a major point of attraction;Take time for visiting all the station on the blue line,2. It is full of arts, like an open air museum. Best to visit after rush hours and weekends. In the week days it is too crowded. At least half a day should be spent. The travel schedule is something like 1.5 minutes. It is a good experience to see different architectural styles and decorations.;5;April 25, 2013
Efficient;Beautiful stations, busy during the rush hour. An efficient means of transport but all signs in Russian only. So either you speak/read Russian or know the route or take a taxi.;3;April 24, 2013
Should be called Moscow Art Gallery;A very efficient means of transportation.  Hopefully you can read Russian though, not too much of it is in an alphabet you might recognize!;4;April 21, 2013
Metro is very clean and nice;While many cities have metros that are dirty and scary, Moscow's metro is exceptionally clean and beautiful.  We paused in some places just to admire the marble walls and ceilings, or the long, clean escalator.  The only negative I might offer is that they do not cater to English speakers in the least.  It was a little difficult for an English only speaker to navigate.;4;April 21, 2013
Art to the people on the way to job;Stalin made the most fantastic Metro in the world. That is may be the best thing he ever did. Its nice just as I did to have guided tour to the most spectacular stations. It takes 2 hours;5;April 21, 2013
Much better than expected;I found the Metro much better than I expected, I felt safer than I do when I'm using the London Underground, there were always Police on the platforms. There was plenty of room to move around and the architectural was very beautiful. It cost 30RUR for a single journey, you can buy tickets with more journeys on if you want to, make sure you swipe it on the way out as the barrier will close kneecapping you - as it did on several occasions to us lol. The self service machines make it easy if you don't speak Russian as it has the option of changing it to English. The platforms are all named on the wall in Russian, but you can always work out what the next stop as there is a simple arrow system on the wall opposite the platform. Grab a copy of one of the Cultural Maps of Moscow and there is a map of the Metro on the back.;5;April 20, 2013
Easy and fast;...and now with automated ticket machines with English instructions, which helps (as the rest of the signage is exclusively in Russian!) ;-);5;April 19, 2013
Historical underground Museum- Must see!;We heard so much about Moscow famous metro and were not disappointed.  We had to go down a long escalator and it was very deep and there were security officers on duty. Feel pretty safe!We bought the new Moscow travel card, 5 journeys (choices 10, 5, 2 etc journeys on public transports) which was easy to use.  It would best to plan the number trips before purchasing.  There was friendly metro staff (or volunteer) who spoke English & wearing blue aprons with “M” red logo by the ticket machine and ticket office who helped us.  We visited various metro which had been recommended by our hotel: “Комсомольская”  (“Komsomolskaya” )( near Leningradsky vokzal rail station –the Sapsan train we took from St Petersburg arrived at)  , “Смоленская ” (“Smolenskaya”)  ( near our hotel),  “Павелецкая “ (“Paveletskaya”) (where we caught the  Aeroexpess to Domodedovo Airport),  “Киевская “ (“Kievskaya”) and “Площадь Революции “ (“Ploshchad Revolutsii”). We were given copies of the metro map on the Sapsan train and hotel in Moscow which helped us to plan our trip. It was helpful that we recognized and wrote down the names of metro in Russia alphabets as well as English plus the colors and number of Lines.  Wow, we spotted some great architecture and designs! The new metro was modern and shown both English and Russian names of the stop and the electronic displays show passengers their where about. While we were there we took extra careful because they were absolutely packed with people rushing around and very crowded when we were there (11:00 a.m. – 1p.m).  May be we should not have picked the rush hour for our trips. There were also steps to negotiate too.  Despite everything we loved the great experience and we managed to take a few photographs of the grand designs.;4;April 17, 2013
practical and beautiful;traffic in Moscow is slow at best so use the metro to get around, it's cheap, quick and the architecture in some of the stations has to be seen to be belived, it knocks the socks off Liverpool central.;4;April 17, 2013
Fantastic tourist site;It is a fantastic metro. If you want to be tourist in Moscow you have to visit the metro and ride the subway just to see the different stations. Buy the book and ride the trains, fantastic!!!!!!;5;April 16, 2013
Not fan of metro systems but this one is exceptional.....;Moscow metro deserves a visit with time and attention to detail.Make plans for it in advance and save plenty of time to admire its beautiful central galleries. Moscow metro stations' decor are real works of art inspired in historical events or historical characters or just scenes of everyday life which intend to homage its people.Avoid rush hours - between 11am and 4.30 pm and after 7.30pm should be ideal hours to do some sightseeing inside the metro. Around 9 million people use Moscow metro system daily so it can get very crowded. At current rates a 28 rubles (around 80 cents of euro) metro ticket gives you access to all lines, providing you don't go out. if you go you can go back paying another ticket.The stations are usually several dozens of metres below the surface, so the entrance escalators can be very deep and can give you a feeling of dizziness that fast disappears as you enter the spacious and beautiful galleries below. We recommend a tour inside the KOL'TSEVAYA (circle) line. We also liked very much the metro station called PLOSHCHAD' REVOLYUTSII (Revolution Square located above), in Arbatsko-Pokrovskaya Line. It was built in the 30's of XX century and is decorated with dozens of statues representing the Peoples of the Soviet Union.In general, the older stations are all grandiose - its walls decorated with paintings and statues of big dimensions. Incredible candelabra are hanging from its ceilings as well as more paintings...On recommendation of our friends who live there, we decided to do a sightseeing tour after rush hour, from 8pm, when there is considerable less mass of people either inside the trains or in the stations. So we travelled the brown circle line - KOL'TSEVAYA line - line number 5. We travelled the whole circle line with around 12 stations, got out in each one of them to admire the central galleries. Even if one station was not so interesting we could always get the next train. They pass every 2 minutes sharp so there is no need to wait for long.As I said, I am not a fan of metro systems but this one is exceptional and deserves a visit.;5;April 16, 2013
Good to Visit;Not only is the metro the easiest way to get around, it is also a tourist destination, as each metro stop is beautifully done and decorated.  There is a book you can buy that has all the metro stops in there in photos.  Great souvenir.;4;April 15, 2013
Average;Cars are spacious as are the platforms, but the stations I went through felt dated. The controllers at the bottom of the escalators are a bit freaky to see and reminiscent of old soviet days. Cheap ride though!;3;April 11, 2013
Not to be missed;If you are visiting Moscow, do not miss a visit to the Moscow Metro stations. It is probably one of the best subway transport networks in the world. Of course, you will not be able to visit all the (150) stations. But choose stations such as Ploshad Revolutsii,  Kievskaya, Mayakovskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Komsomolskaya - to name a few which are architecturally very beautiful.;5;April 11, 2013
Back to the fifties;You will travel back in time. If you get lucky, you will get an old car, but more new train cars are replacing the old ones. Each Metro station is themed related to the war, soviet culture or russian life. Great experience;5;April 10, 2013
Challenging;This subway system is indeed clean and yes, am sure there are fascinating things to see but boy, is it a challenge to use. We visited several stations on our way to and from attractions but never saw what was mentioned in our guidebook!  Yes, people were friendly and helpful but little English was spoken. Yes, give it a go. Just be prepared for a different metro experience than Japan, England or France !;3;April 9, 2013
Transport and interesting design;Moscow Metro is at least a must see if not must use attraction. Traffic in Moscow is huge and moving via metro is much faster. Getting to the airport is much easier via metro and train otherwise you can be stucked in traffic for hours.Please remember that banes of the stations are written in Russian so if you don't know it you will have to be careful to exit at the correct station.Besides being an efficient mean of transport Moscow's metro, its historic stations are beautiful.The Moscow Metro is used by millions of Russian commuters every day - but is often described as an underground art museum.;4;April 9, 2013
Safe and efficient;The Metro system is very good, with frequent trains.  Some stations have wonderful architecture, while others are fairly spartan.Buy a Moscow card from the ticket desks - you can buy them for the number of journeys you need and they are good value.It's a busy place, so needless to say, hide your valuables and put wallets/phones/camers in a safe place.;4;April 9, 2013
A lesson in communication;With a day on our own to explore Moscow, we decided to spend a couple of hours visiting some of the metro stations. We read that the “circle” line [which was brown on our map] included some of the most beautiful so we bought our very inexpensive tickets and made our way there. We rode the full circle, stopping at each station to look and take photographs. As long as we did not exit from the station, we could continue traveling on a single ticket. Fortunately we brought with us a card with the Cyrillic alphabet printed on it so we could match the signs with our map which used the Roman alphabet. Most of the time this worked. When in doubt, we went to the kiosk at the bottom of the long escalator and by pointing and gesturing, we made our way around the circle. What a great tour – the stations have very high ceilings and the decorations include chandeliers, mosaics, stained glass, and statues - the one of Lenin was particularly memorable. At mid-morning, the system was not overly busy so we had good photo opportunities. We found people very willing to help us - even if we had not asked. It was a good lesson on friendly and useful communication across a language barrier. On the final long leg of the trip, I had the opportunity to chat with a nanny from the Philippines who offered some very interesting insights on the life of foreign workers in Russia.;5;April 8, 2013
Stunning!;A lively, practical museum. Kievskaya was my favorite, but so many beautiful stops. Explore it! Murals, mosaics, enamel...;5;April 8, 2013
Pretty to look at, efficient to travel with;The historic Metro stations are beautiful and you can marvel at their grand design while getting where you need to go. The trains come really fast, you don't wait and tickets are very fairly priced. Just make sure to look at the names of the stations you need to get to as they are mostly written in Azbuka.;5;April 8, 2013
Super fast , reliable;Such a super fast, extremely safe and reliable mode of transportation in Moscow......Though figuring out all the names were tough, as everything was written in Russian, we enjoyed our ride with our 2 year old little one...The entrance to the metro, close to 20 floors underground, the one single escalator on which we spend roughly 5 minutes, waiting to figure out the exit :-)...absolutely no wait at all between trains...!!!! Just the best one in the world :-);5;April 8, 2013
Great way to get around Moscow cheaply;A map with both Russian and English station names is essential. Don't attempt the Metro with luggage as there a lots of stairs and and lot of pushing and shoving on very full trains.;5;April 8, 2013
metro;very beautiful, very cheap, very fast, very crowded, very confusing. maps and station names don't always match, but everyone there is really helpful and point you in the right direction;5;April 8, 2013
Great Experiance & A MUST see;The way the system comes together with public transportation and art, history and culture is amazing.  check this one out!;5;April 8, 2013
Very convenient;Really good service ! Although it is very old you can practically go everywhere with it. Good network! One thing you should pay attention to is your personal belongings!;4;April 8, 2013
Not very stroller friendly;The doors entering the Metro is quite heavy, so we always needed someone to hold the door open. Most stations had escalators or stairs. Some stations had very nice interiors.;3;April 8, 2013
Super!;The Moscow Metro is one of the cleanest, easiest to navigate, and cheapest mode of transportation in the city.  I paid 30 rubles for a ride that cost 1500 by taxi.  Very highly recommended.;5;April 4, 2013
A museum, gallery, and metro all in one;The Moscow Metro has to be seen to be believed.  Aside from being incredibly efficient and cheap, the stations are amazing.  My first impression was one of wonder - many of the escalators that takes you down to the metro stations themselves seem to go down forever - over 2 minutes to descend.  Once down, it is like stepping into a museum and gallery all in one.  The ceilings, the columns, the statues - it is all quite unbelievable.  I loved travelling the Moscow Metro - I felt safe at all times, but I did have difficulty with the station names.  Unlike Saint Petersburg, the names are not written in English as well as Russian - but that is the only negative.  Give it a go!!;5;April 3, 2013
The core heart of Moscow;The Moscow metro is a must see of world sites.  I feel sorry for those tourists who get bused around Moscow, and never enter the intricate and beautiful world of the metro.Let me get the bad points out of the way first.  The stations tend to be very deep, and the escalators are very long - and I think many would fear vertigo.  In addition to that, the system gets busy at times, and can feel a little claustrophobic.  Couple that with the signs being in Cyrillic, and maps being rather small and difficult to read - especially those in guide books.  It can be difficult to read the station names from within the trains.  Then, the final bad point is that what is in reality one station with several exits, has several different station names.Well, to be forewarned, is to allow preparation.  Study plans of the metro, read about the stations, and make notes about what they are, and the order in which they appear.  One ticket will allow you, currently, to tour around the whole metro system, and go to all the stations as you want.  Go out, then you need another entry ticket.  So, as well as your notes, take a bottle of water, and something to eat.  There are no shops in the metro station platform areas - although most stations have small kiosk shops lining all the way to the ticket entrances.  The crushes on the entrances make it advisable to keep valuables and money out of sight, and safely tucked away.But with these provisos in mind be prepared for an amazing journey.  The stations are like palaces - there are all sorts of themes to these underground palaces.  Each station is a point on one of the lines - which is why what is one location with several lines running through it has several names.  Each of these differently named parts - which are walkways apart - are very different, with different themes, and different treasures.  Some stations are full of stained glass windows, others full of stucco decorations, other vast halls of delight, others with frescoes, others with medallions, others festooned with mosaics.  My real favourite is the Revolutionary Square station - with amazing life sized statues, and bronze scenes.These stations were built with pride, and obvious love.  A love of country, a love of people and a real love of life.  The decorated and interesting stations are the older ones - the Soviet stations dating from the 1920's, 30's and 40's.  They are all veritable museums, and real public treasures.  Russia has many, many treasures - and the Moscow metro stations are high on the list of those treasures.  Enjoy.  You will not want to leave - so the sandwiches, fruit and water will not be wasted - in fact you will be glad of them.  Unfortunately, like most metros throughout the world - there are no toilets inside.;5;April 2, 2013
Not to be missed!;Given that the streets often become a "parking lot" due to the amount of traffic in Moscow, the Metro really is the best way to get around.  It tends to be quite efficient, and some of the signs are now in English, but don't really count on that.In addition to travel, the metro is quite notable for the artistry and architecture in many of the stations (don't forget to touch the dogs nose if you want to return to Moscow).  It is quite a wonderful adventure!;5;March 31, 2013
Stunning masterpiece, even if you use it daily during the rush hour);Apart from being one of the world's most efficient transportation systems, it's a historical landmark, representing a broad range of styles from the great Stalinist Empire to contemporary Russian architectureMy personal TOP-10 must-see list of stations: Ploschady Revolutsii (Revolution Square), Mayakovskaya, Kropotkinskaya, Avtozavodskaya, Kievskaya-kolytsevaya, Rimskaya, Slavyanskiy bulyvar (Slavonic Boulevard), Vorobyevy Gory (Sparrow Hills), Komsomolyskaya-kolytsevaya and Taganskaya-kolytsevaya.;5;March 31, 2013
an experience;it was like travelling back in the late 1800's, the carriages were wooden and had curtains up with very dim lighting, it was an experience and fun. Nothing like London underground...;4;March 30, 2013
Beautiful stations, but no English;All stops are in Russian, and usually in the Cyrillic alphabet. The stops are not really listed in order and I found it a bit difficult to follow. The Moscow metro does have beautiful stations unlike any others in the world. The trains run very frequently and very reliably. Overall, I was never lost, but not speaking Russian it wasn't intuitive to just hop on a train, it took me a few seconds to figure out.;4;March 28, 2013
Metro is Awesome;Ride the Metro for the experience and history! The mosaics and art on the walls in the terminals are amazing! It's like stepping back in time.;5;March 27, 2013
unique but be careful;I think that you get a sense of a city when underground. the Moscow metro is full of murals, chandeliers and statues and is well worth a trip or two. Just be careful - even as a seasoned traveller i KNEW i stood out and there are gangs that work the metro. I would advise not to use it after it gets dark.;5;March 27, 2013
A must see in Moscow;Moscow metro, whether you like it or not might very much depend on the time you are travelling. If traveling during peak time, you might be put off by its crowdedness. And from time to time you might be confused by many of its exits. Once get to the wrong exit, it takes time to walk to the right one as they are a bit far away from each other. But, all these would not affect our excitement for Moscow metro.Using the metro is easy to use and the routes are very simple. The routes are numbered with different colour. But the problem is there were no metro maps offered at the station, even wall maps in some smaller station. It'd be easier if you bring your own metro map in Cyrillic with English translation.;5;March 24, 2013
Blah;The interiors at some stations are pretty and unique, but the majority of stations are utilitarian and bleak.  The Moscow metro is quick and convenient, but it is also noisier, more crowded, and generally less comfortable than most other metro systems.;3;March 24, 2013
Phenomenal;The Moscow Metro is phenomenal, there are few other words for it. The stations (in the centre) are beautiful, and the trains run every minute or so for most of the 20 hours the system is open for daily. Far and away the best metro system in the world, and a must visit for the architecture, variation, and decoration alone.;5;March 23, 2013
Easy to use, difficult to get out of;The metro can be a bit confusing to first time travelers but when you get the hang of it, it's really the convenient way to get around. It's more value for money if you're taking a longer route rather than short rides.;3;March 22, 2013
Old Moscow Metro - looks like museum;Very beautiful stations, easy routs, all old central Moscow metro stations looks very attractive. New trains started service: clean and huge.;4;March 22, 2013
Great Experience;Easiest way to go around Moscow is by the Metro system. Most of the attraction are walking distance from the metro line and a good way to avoid heavy traffic. Identification of the line is by the colour and the line number, for example line 3 is shown is blue on the map.Just be sure to avoid peak period when you're taking the Metro and have both english and Cyrillic version of the map with you.;4;March 20, 2013
Moscow metro - work of art;This you will see anyways unless you will have 3 hours space to travel from one place to another because moscow is very busy. many metro stations are very beautiful, mostly the ones in the centre and those that were built in stalin times. I think that encyclopedia recomends that moscow metro stations are work of art and practically free to see. also almost free travel, less than one dollar can take you more than 100km. One of the few cheap things in Moscow city.;5;March 20, 2013
Great service, amazing system;Buy a card for 10 or more journeys for the most user friendly experience (265RUR/10 at the present time);5;March 19, 2013
Unbelievable;The trains are so fast and regular that you are never standing around for long.  Far more enthralling is the amaing decor of many of the stations.  Visiting the stations themselves is worthwhile as a day out especially if it is raining.;5;March 16, 2013
Fast, efficient, but slightly intimidating;No visit to Moscow is complete without a few trips on the Metro. It was built relatively late, in the 1930s. It was designed to impress a proletariat used to extremely poor living conditions. OK, you might live in communal flat and have only one awful room for a family of four, but just look at the magnificence of your Metro! This is what some Soviet architect was thinking. Trains are frequent and it is very cheap. The taxi alternative will be far slower and it could be very expensive. Use the Metro, or suffer financially, is my advice. Unlike the Paris Metro or the London tube, on the Moscow metro it is often difficult to know exactly where you are. You can look in vain to find the name of the station. This means you must first count how many stops it is to your destination. The name of the station will be announced over a loud speaker, but if you don’t speak Russian you will probably not understood what is said. The Moscow Metro is very safe. I was once abused by an old guy who was annoyed at me being well dressed, but that was a long time ago.If you wish to ‘do’ the Metro as a tourist, rather than a mere traveller, you will have to select the stations you want to look at and plan your journey accordingly. However, some stations are an absolute ‘must’. Ploschad Revolyutsii (Revolution Square) is my favourite. There are 76 magnificent bronzes of Soviet worker/soldier heroes. I think everyone’s favourite is the revolutionary with an Alsatian dog. Whereas the rest of the statue remains dull bronze, the dog’s muzzle shines brightly – many people cannot resist stroking its nose.  Kiyevskaya is all white marble. There are frescos and mosaic all, naturally, reflecting life in the Ukraine at the time of the Civil War (1917 – 1922).  Using the Moscow metro is a challenge to Westerners who have no Russian. Moscow is not a tourist friendly place. In the Metro there are no signs with Latin script, only Cyrillic. You first need to recognise a few essential words: Bxod (enter), Выxод (exit), Переход на (change/transfer to, followed by the name of the line).In actual fact, it is all very logical. If you can use the London tube you can use the Moscow Metro. Buying tickets is also intimidating. The Metro seems to have a policy of hiring only sociopaths, almost always women. They have all successfully completed a course in scowling, being rude, and being generally unfriendly. Wow betide the arrogant foreigner who comes up to the small glass window and tries to communicate in English. You must make sure you can ask for a ticket in Russian: “(Billet na) odnu poyezku” – (a ticket for) one journey, and you will save yourself possible trouble if you can tender the correct money. Muscovites tend to be economical with words so they usually just say ‘one journey’ or ‘ten journeys’.’ Please and thank you’ are not Russian concepts.  You can also buy a set number of tickets. If you cannot count in Russian, or are too intimidated to try to use the language, just hold up the appropriate number of fingers. It should do the trick.Hotels usually give out free Metro maps which give the metro stations names in both Cyrillic and Latin scripts. If you are keen, you can easily learn the Cyrillic alphabet over the weekend. It is not particularly challenging and it will save you a lot of hassle comparing the name of the Metro station with the map in your hand. Russian is a phonetic alphabet so if you can read a word you can pronounce it reasonably accurately, unlike English or French. One last thing, Russians are very hospitable but they are generally unfriendly to strangers. Do not expect a stranger to step in and help if you look lost, confused, or in a panic. The Moscow Metro is impossible to use for anyone with mobility problems.;5;March 16, 2013
It is like a museum;You should visit the central metro station as a museum because they have different styles, mosaics, sculptures, etc. And though it is crowded, people are quite polite there.;5;March 15, 2013
say what you may of the old USSR but they built a beautiful Metro!;Before my first visit to Moscow I'd read about the Metro and knew of the art in the Metro stations.  Visiting in person however was a very pleasant surprise ....   the Metro stations are truly a destination onto themselves with classic and elegant art deco and paintings;5;March 15, 2013
The most beautiful metro station  in the world;You can hop the subway to get to all the stations and experience the beautiful design of the stations,each station had their unique feature.;5;March 15, 2013
History Written in Subway Stations;Like my fellow reviewers, I do like Moscow's Metro System and would compare it to Washington's Metro in cleanliness. However, I would not recommend you attempt riding the first time during rush hour unless you use a subway everyday in your hometown.Everything you have read about the museum quality of the stations downtown is true. What I haven't  seen mentioned is what you will see as you ride away from the city center. You will notice the stations slowly becoming less and less ornate; then turning into modern glass & steel. You can see the rise, fall and rise of Moscow in it's subway stations. The new trains and stations in areas like Butovo are as modern as any in DC's Metro system (that's a complement).;4;March 14, 2013
Underground beauty;Maybe not as efficient as Beijing, maybe not as cheap as Kiev, certainly more confusing than London, but definitely more beautify than them all. The Moscow subway is an attraction in it's self, making your journey under the city as exciting as the sights you are traveling to see. Some companies even offer tours of the subway, but it is easy enough to Google the best stations and go their by youself.;5;March 14, 2013
Impressive metro stations;It wasn't my first time in Moscow but metro stations always impressed me from architecture. And, metro itself was more or less clean, compared to other metros for examples I saw in Paris.;5;March 11, 2013
just love it!;they were just lovely ;-) we got a chance to admire the interior design of some metro stations. In Moscow, actually it's the same station, but when you come from different line, the name will be different as well as the exit. i strongly advise you to remember the name of the street so you know the exit, and learn Cyrillic as there is no English!;4;March 10, 2013
It's necessity for such big city as Moscow;I can't imagine that You don't use metro visiting Moscow - it's the only way to save time for sightseeing!:)). Moscow metro is still different from European cities metro as it has not only crowds of people rushing here and there, but some stations designed by famous architecture groups - generally stations in the very center of the city. Don't miss this experience!;));4;March 5, 2013
works of art;I read before going to Moscow that the metro stations were something to see, but didnt really appreciate it until I saw it. Each station is different, but always a work of art. Each station was unique, but decorated with marble, granite, statues, sculptures, stained glass etc..  Other subways I have been in have had leaks, smells, litter etc.. but none of that was found anywhere in the Moscow metro stations.. All were spotless.. All of the people were friendly... and I didnt get my wallet stolen like I did in the Paris metro!Dont visit Moscow without going down into the metro stations!;5;March 4, 2013
Probably the best metro in the world;Fast, reliable, inexpensive --- and many of the stations are works of art in themselves.  During a busy day in Moscow, the Metro is often faster than driving.;5;March 4, 2013
useful and beatiful;use it! it is safe and even clean (compare to New York one)has English names on the maps on stations and in trains;5;March 3, 2013
Form and function both should be experienced;Some striking architecture in some stations, and a fast and frequent way to travel. Station names take a bit of decoding but all very logical, and colour coded as well as numbered. The direction of travel is confirmed by the voice on board- female means you are travelling away from the centre, male means you are heading in. Genius.;4;March 2, 2013
best in the world;don't be intimidated . the maps are easy to understand. buy a ticket from a person, not a machine. every station is decorated differently.;5;March 1, 2013
Very useful transport in Moscow.;The underground system is very effective and easy to use.  It works on the same principal as the rest of the world, with color lines and very clearly marked.  Although the trains are rather old they run on time.  It can be very full over peak times so try and plan your travel before or after, especially between 4;30 and 6pm.;5;February 27, 2013
Spend some time underground;The Metro has great stations.  The price is inexpensive and the experience is wonderful.  Each station has its own personality with lighting and artwork worth the time spent.  Trains run every few minutes so you can hop on and off.;5;February 25, 2013
One of the most beautiful metro in the world!!;Moscow metro is very , very beautiful. Lots of stations are decorated with marble, sculptures, very nice light fixtures,etc. i don't think it has a wheelchair  access. Well worth to visit, especially that its the easiest and fastest way to travel in Moscow and its not expensive.;5;February 25, 2013
Very beautiful but no English;Moscow Metro has a long history.  It is clean and ornamented way better than any other metro I have seen (USA: NY, D.C., Paris, Madrid). It easy to use because of the circular system, which allows you to get to your destination in more than 1 ways.  I would recommend visiting central stations, or older ones (usually located within the circle) - they are more ornate. Mosaics are beautiful.  The trains are fast; they come and leave frequently and you will get to your destination before you know it.However, there are drawbacks. When I visited last time (2 yrs ago) most stations did not have English names and most Russian do not speak English (or understand what you may ask).  This makes it harder to get where u need.  There are rarely announcements about delays or construction.  There is no air conditioner. So, in summer or during the rush hours it may be hard to be inside. Finally, metro was not build to service so many people as Moscow hosts now.  The "guests of the capital" from the former republics, who came to live and make money in Moscow have created a problem with rush hours.  Even between the rush hours it is often too crowded.  I remember how nice it was 15 years ago. Now it is hard to be in such a crowded place.  It is worse than during the NY rush hour.;4;February 25, 2013
most elegant metro in world;old trains, cheap tickets, but marvelous marble walls and nicely decorated metro system. every time an adventure.;4;February 25, 2013
Hyped;Heard a lot, took a ride found it overcrowded but commuters were disciplined and there was no pushing or aggressiveness. Cleanliness could be better especially the washrooms. Language is a barrier in commutation. Must have been outstanding when commissioned but now is nothing much to write home about;3;February 23, 2013
Experience Russian life;If you considered the London or Paris metro to be big and confusing, think again. In the Moscow metro you will travel several floors under ground on large escalators, which are governed by personnel checking that none of the travellers does something stupid. If they start yelling "Uwaschajeme Passaschiri!" on the loudspeakers, you know that someone did something extra-stupid. Navigating the metro not only demands knowledge of cyrillic letters (no plans, but a string of the names of all stations, which all seem to end in -aya), but also solid knowledge of the geography. It is therefore very recommended to travel with a native Moscovite - but it is so worth it, as you can admire socialist and earlier artwork and decoration. Nice!From the sheer travel experience, it is of course stressful. Distances are huge, masses of people are incredible, and you will feel very estranged.;4;February 23, 2013
Over-rated;I heard a lot of very nice things about the Moscow Metro...before I landed there....so it got me all excited...but at the end of the day...it was bit of an anti-climax....well..I must say that the stations are interesting...I took the train from Krasniye Vorota to Oktholny Ryad....the stations look clean and spartan....but the train itself is not great...reminded me of the PAris Metro train....I would still rate the London Metro train higher.....;3;February 23, 2013
Peoples' Palaces indeed!!!;Not what I expected at all! Very interesting and well worth a visit! Very impressive! You need to see a couple of stations to get an overview as they are all very different.;5;February 22, 2013
A majetic Mettro;This metro was initially built to protect Moscow from invaders during world war II and play a role as underground protected area for the population. It's therefore full of testimonials;5;February 22, 2013
Not as I imagine;Only some of its station are that fantastic..I did not like it......it is not clean and well organised as the metro in St petersburg.It was not so easy to find the way precisely even with my good knowledge with russian language.;3;February 19, 2013
Massive Fear;Unfortunately the only way of rapid transportation in Moscow. Overloaded system with rude people who never smiles, abrupt police (better do not go there at all if you have mediterranean or middle-eastern appearance) and continuous information about possible terrorist attack in loudspeakers.;1;February 18, 2013
A clean subway.  An idea to emulate.;The Metro is easy to use, cheap, clean, fast and generally a great way to get around Moscow. There always seem to be English speakers around to help with directions.;5;February 16, 2013
An absolute must!!;Beyond a doubt, the very best way to get around the city.  The stations are each magnificent, and it might even be worth a day of cruising the metro's 10 routes to see them all.  A word of caution:  learn to read the Cyrillic alphabet before you go; the signs are not bi-lingual.;5;February 16, 2013
Fast and cheap;Moscow Metro is a masterpiece. Some stations, especially the older ones are trully artwork! If you need to get from A to B, then this would be the fastest way to go. Traffic jams are horrible in the city. I don't recommend to go there in times when people getting to or off work if you just want to enjoy the view.;5;February 15, 2013
Great decoration;The station was beautifully decorated in Old Russian stylle, it located near to our hotel, so we only need some minutes for arriving.;5;February 14, 2013
Beautiful Stations;Nearly all of the Metro Stations are works of art, some extremely beautiful, but all worth taking photographs of.You need to be quick getting on or off the trains though as there will another along within 30 seconds, and make certain you are holding onto something as there are so quick off the mark, then brake so hard.The first time I rode the Metro, I was certain the driver knew I was on the train and was doing his/her best to put me on the floor. lol;5;February 13, 2013
Fantastic!;Moscow Metro should be a must for all visitors! It is really wonderful. Buy a ticket and get on and off at as many stations as you manage.;5;February 13, 2013
lovely stations;while the Metro is hard to get around, I think, unless you speak Russian or read Russian, there are some amazing metro stations and if you can find them, go and gaze at the murals, stained glass, frescoes, mosaics, sculptures and all.  Not every station is beautiful but many are;4;February 12, 2013
The most intricate Metro in the world?;Stalin wanted a metro for the people with the opulence the upper classes enjoyed in their palaces.  Some of the metro stops are quite incredible, with their grand columns and rich design and decoration.  It definitely beats the northern line in London.;5;February 11, 2013
Work of art;Love it - great place to practice Cyrillic. It's like visiting a cathedral or museum - stunning architecture;5;February 8, 2013
TIme of your visit is important;Moscow Metro is really different from all other U-bahn, Undergrounds and Tubes. It is the product of Stalin time, developed during the following Soviet years. Not everybody accepts this kind of architecture as the lofty art. Some people suppose this style terrible. I not. In any case, this is the historical place, playing important role for Moscow.WARNING FOR WESTERN PEOPLE: NEVER TRY TO VISIT MOSCOW METRO at working days BETWEEN 7:00 AM and 11:00AM AND BETWEEN 16:00 AND 21:00. Too many people.;5;February 8, 2013
Really, really beautiful;I'll be brief, but will attach a stack of pictures to show you what you're missing.  Get a ticket and just ride around the underground system of Moscow for fun.  The stations are dizzyingly beautiful.  Just get out at every stop and marvel at the walls and ceilings.  Each is very different and distinctive.  One halt has great bronze statues, the next mosaics, the next is Art Deco, the next Art Nouveau.  All over the city Soviet statues and symbols are gone, but this place is still emblazoned with Lenin's portraits, hammers and sickles, and Communist propaganda imagery. The trains themselves can be crowded.  Note that Moscovites are very proud of their metro: you'll never see vandalism or grafitti anywhere.;5;February 6, 2013
How to survive in Moscow Metro;Just keep going, just keep going... A lot of people, who don't care you were just about to validate your ticket, they will quickly put their card right in front of your hand. Crowded, but what would you expect from a metro in a city of millions of people ? Some stations looked really nice, some were old and looked like nobody was using them, some had Stalin's face on the walls. It was cool that if you had to switch stations, you didn't have to validate your metro card once again. Signs were pretty clear to me... pretty... Remember to know what big and "known" is surrounding the place you are heading to because on the signs you can read only main places, when you exit metro. And also once you exited and realized, that that was the wrong direction, you will need to validate your card once again to go back. For me, as a person travelling alone, it was kind of a urban survivor test :) Even though everyone was in hurry, many people helped me, when I asked for help. Few actually rode or/and walked with me to my destination. And just the riding part was fun too :);5;February 6, 2013
Beautiful.;Most beautiful metro of the world - yes or sure? Every metro station is unique, with different statue, moscais, it is extremly luxurious. From the top to the roof. Maybe not all stations are like this but at least all the ones I visited and travelled through. It was always a breahtaking experience, I was always taking so many pictures while waiting for the subway, the locals must think we are crazy, they are probably used to it already but it will never cease to amaze me!;5;February 5, 2013
It beats the clockwork orange.;You could spend days down the Metro just viewing the architecture never mind actaully going anywhere. As long as you've got your Metro Map in Russian and English it's no bother at all. Get a 20 ride ticket and it will cost you next to nothing to travel all over Moscow. The trains are every 2 mins, you never have to wait. it's amazing. The new EuroExpress Trains to the airports are easy and inexpensive also. Just go for it, try them it's easy, you'll eventually get a hang of the lingo.;5;February 3, 2013
Efficient and beautiful;There's no disputing that Moscow's Metro is huge, but once you have a map in hand (and the other hand on your wallet as protection against pickpockets), it really isn't too intimidating. The crowds can be overwhelming at first, but slow down and take your time.  Another train will likely pull into your station in under two minutes.  While you're waiting, look around you: Moscow Metro stations are works or art and reflect the nation's past. Is it inexpensive and efficient transport surrounded by art, or an art gallery with trains...you choose!;4;February 2, 2013
Great way to get around Moscow;Some of the architecture of the metro stations is amazing. During rush hours they can get packed. With Moscow traffic getting more and more like a giant parking lot, the metro is the only quick way to go!;4;February 2, 2013
You must take at least one ride!;We took several rides during our visit to Moscow because you can go almost everywhere by the huge metrolines! There are of course advantages and disadvantages, and here are some of them!It is cheap (28 rubles), some stations are just fantastic, (we devoted a day getting to most of them and take pictures), it is fast and has a train every 2-3 minutes and it can take you anywhere!But sometimes is very crowded (avoid it on rush hour, we stuck about 20 mins in line with our suitcases), it is hard to find your way as the stations aren't always clear and in order, sometimes you don't know if you have to go left or right and the alphabet is hard to understand and find the desired destination! (I'm Greek and managed to understand some of them but for another tourist it would be very difficult).It is a must, but take a metro map on your cell at least and check before you travel how exactly you will go there!Tip: The brown circular line could prove very helpful....;5;February 1, 2013
Moscow metro;That was really an experience!!! Disadvantage - a bit too crowded. But it is really like a palace with all those mosaics, chandeliers, marble. You almost forget it is just public transportation. If you are in Moscow this is a must!!!;5;January 30, 2013
Moscow Metro;I was in central Moscow for a week and never once took a cab. Of course I knew the Moscow Metro was famous and wanted to experience it. On my first day I took the Brown line that circles central Moscow. It is famous for very grand subway stations featuring Soviet era statuary and mosaics honoring motherland, russian revolutionaries etc. I don't speak russian so I brought a subway map and a small copy of the cyrillic alphabet. I quickly became familiar with the russian names for the more prominent subway stops and that was useful for the rest of my trip, and it helped me to learn the cyrillic alphabet.;5;January 26, 2013
Can be alittle challenging..;The instructions are mainly in Russian & the different color lines made it even more challenging. We managed to get to the Red Square eventually by subway. Boy, what an experience! The Russian are not exactly one of the friendliest people that you could ask directions from. We have to approach quite a few people before they want to help us. I reckon cos' they could not converse well in English so they did not help us.;2;January 26, 2013
Metro Cheap and Clean;the metro is cheap to travel on and the stations are clean with police officers around. no need to be worried about your safty;4;January 25, 2013
Unbelievable Decor;I cannot believe the elaborate lighting, the extremely long esculator ride down to the subway and the cleanliness of the whole place. You absolutely must experience this while you are in Moscow.;5;January 24, 2013
Cheap, big & Magnificent;This is perhaps the cheapest thing that you will get in Moscow. Even a coffee or tea costs more than a metro ticket. Considering the fact that thie construction of this metro started in 1930's, this is an engineering marvel in itself. Any point to any other point on themetro comes at a fixed fare. Hence the cheapest way to traverse Moscow.. Infact, i would say, never hire a taxi except for your trip to airport;3;January 24, 2013
Amazing;Guides recommend to do a Metro tour, but if you like to do it avoid the rush hours. Metro stations are so big, and an incredible amount of people can fit in!;4;January 23, 2013
Get a guide, if possible;The Moscow Metro is impressively clean and one of the few places left sporting artwork (read: propaganda) of the USSR regime. The stations have paintings, sculptures, and mosaics, and all of them are in a state of very good repair.Our tour group had a guide lead us between the 'most interesting' stations of the Metro; I cannot imagine trying to navigate the Metro without assistance, unless you can read Cyrillic. The Metro is busy most times of the day, and can be very noisy. So noisy in fact that directions across the group were impossible; our guide had to hold up her hand with the number of the stop we needed to disembark.If possible don't miss the Metro, but I highly recommend getting assistance to do so.;4;January 22, 2013
Every station is unique;Every station is unique, you have the feeling that you travel inside a museum, since every station is full of statues paintings etc. Plus its very convinient since it can take you anywhere you want in Moscow. Relatively cheap compared to what it offers;5;January 21, 2013
Clean and Impressive!;A sight to see. Extremely clean, organized, and civil - the way you would expect during Soviet times as well!  Easy to get around to all touristy sites.;5;January 20, 2013
Nightmare!;Lovely decor, frequent trains but that is all. You need to plan in advance, take a photo of your stops so you can compare the Cyrillic as it is difficult o try and translate from English. Signage is poor and NOBODY wants to help you. Trying to buy a ticket is rather trying so make sure you are very well prepared...... use Ggogle translate for all your questions, plan in advance and then have a screenshot that you can show the people as they will not try and communicate in anything other than Russian (some of the younger women were much more helpful!!!).Other than frustrations with transport, multiple metal detectors etc. Moscow is Fab!!!!!! :);3;January 20, 2013
The fastest way to get around;It is very well connected i must say...perfect way to get around Moscow. The connections are pretty much straight forward with different coloured lines. It gives you the 'old-world' feeling with beautiful architecture. Like any other subways in the world, people move very fast and don't forget to stay on the right hand-side of the escalator if you do not wish to walk (because in my country we stand on the left). The only setback for me was, no english signage. For me who doesn't speak or read Russian, it was a bit challenging. The tricks are carry the metro map, see those coloured lines, see the name of the station and match the writing on the map and on the signage and for confirmation just stop anyone who looks approachable and ask them. From my experience, those younger generation seems to be more friendly and they usually know if not much at least a little english. Another tip is see those who are carrying or reading an english book, they will definitely speak english. The best part from my experience, i actually made friends with the local girl i met on the metro while trying to figure my way. She was really helpful and very nice that she took time to guide me to the station i wanted to go. Thank you Karina! Oh yea, and the fares is cheap too.;4;January 18, 2013
Central metro stations;Great and unique architecture, this is one of the "must-see" places in Moscow. There is no such an underground anywhere else in the World. But its really busy and hectic almost always, choose the right time to see and make pictures (weekend mornings, maybe later hours after ten pm, Moscow never sleeps).;5;January 18, 2013
Not suitable for travellers with luggage, elderly and disabled;Moscow metro is beautiful, but absolutely not suitable for ordinary people, to say nothing about the elderly and disabled.First of all, there are endless crowds at the ticket offices. The new self-service ticket machines make it a bit easier, but many of them are out of order or not functioning well. Tickets are valid for 4 days only, which is ridiculous. They used to be valid for 30 days, but the situation "improved".Also, there are so many staires which are hard to climb, even if you are a healthy and young person.Moscow metro is not suitable for people with heavy luggage as there are no lifts. Rolling stairs are not everywhere, there are a lot of ordinary stairs. Consequently, there is also no access for disabled persons.;1;January 17, 2013
Include as many stations as you can;Everything you hear about the Moscow Metro Stations is true.  Beautifully constructed.  They are must see tourist stops in Moscow.;5;January 13, 2013
Amazing!;Most beautiful metro stations in the world. While there is no english writing, and tourists are bound to the colours of the lines, it is well worth a visit! Look up the nicest ones or take a official tour and be amazed!;5;January 12, 2013
old technology but runs well;If you have a love for old architecture then visiting some of the stations (platforms) will allow you to witness the various sculptures, statues and mozaics.  Some of the stations are truely beautiful.If you need to get around Moscow, then this is a great way to move aound.  You will need to have a map and decode the names (cyrillic);4;January 11, 2013
People Zoo;Some lines everytime very busy. Inside wagons now a little bit better coz new wagons have a condition system, but at the spring, early summer it like people zoo, smelly, busy, sweat people. And be careful coz many incidents happening in the Moscow underground. And watching for your pockets, mobile phones on the neck and for your bags as well! Have a cool journey by Moscow Metro ;-);2;January 8, 2013
Great!;We loved the Moscow Metro.  The stations are amazing, with beautiful stations and lobbies in a lot of the downtown stations.  In addition, they were always punctual and only 28 Rubles.;5;January 7, 2013
Explore at your leisure;At first it is loud and daunting but once you get to grips with it you'll never be off it! It opens up the rest of the city to be explored. One major advantage is that is extremely cheap about 56rbls for 2 journeys (about £1) and there is no restriction on distance travelled. Maybe London should follow suit!The moscow metro is full of beautiful marble stations. It is well worth the exploration. I particularly liked Partizanskaya.;5;January 6, 2013
It's not transport, it's show-off;From my point of view, Moscow's underground is not transport, it's show-off.There are problems that must be solved but nobody would like to solve it. Certainly if you travel by it only for tourists purpose it may be nice. But using it every day isn't.;3;January 6, 2013
Make sure you have a translator;The Metros are very beautifully decorated, like much of the city; however, they are not easy to navigate unless you can understand Cyrillic script. I was lost. Figured it out by just comparing literature to signs.;4;January 4, 2013
Beautiful architecture;Very busy,hectic & extremely daunting so make sure you are armed with a metro map in both English & Russian.  Easy to follow, once you have experienced it a few times, just make sure you know where you're going & count the number of stops.  The architecture is unbelievable, including the chandeliers!  A must do whilst in Moscow.;5;January 1, 2013
Always crowded, but very different from European undergrounds;To enjoy cultural component and unique sculptures or paintings you'd better go to metro stations in the center area and the day after a big holiday :-) My recommendation would be January 1st - it should be almost empty as well as Moscow streets... Other details about Moscow metro you can get from many sources.;4;December 29, 2012
Superb architecture;One way to experience Moscow is to go to different metro station and experienced the architecture. Some of the older station has a superb build and beautiful finishing. Unfortunately some of them were under renovation/preservation work.;4;December 28, 2012
Great way to travel once you decode Cyrillic;The Moscow metro is a terrific way to get around. Yes it is crowded and like any transport system it can by confusing, particularly because all the signs on the platforms and on the trains are in Cyrillic.I almost gave up but then discovered the network map in the ticket hall of each station used both Cyrillic and Latin script.Each time I took a trip I used my phone to take a picture of the station I wanted to go to (and any interchange stations). The pic had Latin and Cyrillic - I would then use my phone to match my destination to station and train signs once I was underground. I guess I looked a little strange but it got me where I wanted to go.Apart from all of that there are some spectacular stations with amazing sculptures and marble work.;4;December 26, 2012
Riding the Metro;Often extremely busy and crowded but has a very frequent service.  Inexpensive and uses touch card tickets.;4;December 25, 2012
Impressive, Beautiful, Jammed;The Communists built beautiful subways - marble statues, marble and granite floors and walls, chandeliers. Rivals museum you see in Europe. Our guide explained that every one was equally poor under the Communists so they poured money into the public works for all to share equally.;4;December 25, 2012
Beautiful stations and trains every 2 minutes;Yes, you read that correctly we never had to wait for more than 2 minutes, even when we just missed the previous train.It's an excellent means of transportation to discover Moscow.You will also discover some beautiful stations, not all of them are as impressive but you don't have to search hard to find one.A good place to start is the brown circular line.;5;December 24, 2012
dark, crowded and noisy;Well, the Moscow metro is a great adventure, especially for the foreigner. There are not any names in English, the stuff is not helpful and there are hordes of people. Undoubtly the stations in the city center are beautifully decorated. But travelling in old dark metro trains is a real torture. Very unforgettable experience.;3;December 23, 2012
Many-branched system;If u r in Moscow, i'd advice to prefer Metro to other kind of public transport. metro can deliver you wherever you want. The cost is 28 rubles (less than euro) per one enter. The system is branched so it is better for you to have the metro scheme with yourself.;5;December 22, 2012
Incredible underground city;Metro in Moscow is really special, it differs from the metro in other european countries by it's historical architecture and many beautiful stations which can be a good piece of art rather than a public transport. Station like Moyakovskaya, Park Pobedi and Komsomolskaya a really like a museums/ I recommend to visit but from 11 a.m. - 4 p.m. when threre are not so many people.;5;December 21, 2012
I really liked modern combined with classic style;I really liked modern combined with classic style metro stations. Old metro stations especially were amazing, something you need to see.;5;December 21, 2012
Learn Cyryllic!;Moscow Metro is one of the most beautiful underground in the World, almost every station is different than the other. It's also one of the most heavily used metro on Earth. All messages are in Russian, and station names are only written in Cyryllic so if you don't know it yet - better start learning! And if you can read - just enjoy the unexpectedly clean passages, escalators, sclptures and painted walls - all for less than 30 rubles (you don't have to pay as long as you're inside).;5;December 16, 2012
Sooo impressive!;Take your time to visit the Moscow Metro. Most of the stations in the central part of it are just a masterpiece. There is a strong communist spirit everywhere, as they are built during this period and used as a propaganda. I loved every station i have seen, especially the Revolution square one. Full of live size figures, representing mainly workers and soldiers. Rubbing the dog's nose brings you good luck, as thought. Allow a good three hours to spend unrground. Best time is morning during the weekends. Ticket price for one ride is just 25 rubli, which is half a dollar.;5;December 16, 2012
Moscow Underground;For sure one of the best underground in term of architecture I've seen. Ok not all the station are masterpiece but many of them are really very beautyfull mainly when is not rush hour. If in Moscow is really worthy to spend some hour there.;5;December 15, 2012
Some stops are beautiful;We spent about 2 hours riding around the metro looking for nice stations. We should have done our homework and researched which stops were worth seeing as I feel we wasted some time. That being said we did get to see some beautiful metro stops. The funny part is I'm not sure the locals appreciate them as we were getting strange looks when we took photos and they would look up when they saw us look up them look back down at us quizzically, as if not understanding why we'd look up.;4;December 13, 2012
It's well worth seeing;The interior design is stunning! Make sure you have planned everything in advance. You can discover some fossils in the columns which are made of marble. If you need to check your e-mail you can do it underground. Don't forget to touch the dog's nose at Ploshad Revolutsii.;4;December 13, 2012
Stunning;The Moscow Metro is probably the only underground railway that is also a tourist destination. The first time I visited was unbelievable but we were on an organised tour and that is severley limited. This time we were on our own, my daughter not quite understanding what all my enthuisiasm was about. Most of the stations I had earmarked to see were on the circle line and we decided to pass up on those that weren't. So we headed to the nearest station, a pretty little building even if it is beginning to show signs of wear. Tickets. If you ask for two you will get one ticket for two different trips. Whether this would work as one trip for two people we couldn't determine so we made sure we had one one trip ticket each. The idea was to take the train to the circle line and ride that, getting off when we felt like it. Careful note was made of the cyrillic for our starting station. This station was attractive enough to convince my daughter that this was worth all the fuss. The route we wanted was just as easy as in any other city. After our first stop on the circle line we decided to get off at every station. Not only are the stations unbelieveably beautiful they are spotless, each station appearing to have a permanent cleaner and we saw a policeman at almost every stop as well. The platforms are very busy but the Muscovites cram themselves into the middle carriages; by sticking to the front one we had seats every time. Between trains the amazing hallways are almost clear of people so plenty of space to stand and stare. Whoever decided to install chandeliers and mosaics and create a different scene at every stop is one of my heroes. What I love most is that this place is real, unlike palaces and stately homes it fulfills a function. We were down there for about 3 hours for less than 50p each, a cheap and very cheerful experience in a very expensive city.;5;December 12, 2012
Use iphone app Moscow Metro to get around;The metro is not as scary as you think.  Download the application on your iphone called Moscow Metro and it gives you an interactive  map and plans your journey, in English.  You can obtain a metro map usually from the hotel you are staying in Russian and then cross reference with the English app.;5;December 11, 2012
Brilliant;Go on a tour of the metro and explore the stations.An organised one is best to get the full experience.Don't forget to look at all the ceilings;5;December 11, 2012
Rode this for 1 month - amazing;I taught English for one month in Moscow and had the pleasure of riding this everyday. Muscovites complain that it is overcrowded, the doors close quickly and without mercy, and that it's really no big deal. Although mostly true, as a tourist, I think it has the most beautiful subway stations of any city in Europe I have ever visited. It is also the largest Metro I have ever ridden. Also, its subway trains are 3 times as long as trains in other cities and, thus, its stations are huge.I decided to spend a whole day in the Metro with my SLR camera and a tripod. I then learned that you are not allowed to take photos with a tripod, and was told this at 5 different stations, in Russian of course, which I could not understand. However, they didn't kick me out, arrest me, ask for bribes, nor inform guards at other stations. So do this at your own risk!As a tourist you will likely use the Metro, but if not, you should try to check it out. It's extremely cheap to ride. The best stations are the circle line stations, plus others such as Ploschad Revolyutsii, Mendeleevskaya, and Baumanskaya.;5;December 9, 2012
An underground palace-amazing;You will be blown away by the beauty of the metro stations-just make sure to stay clear of peak-times (I'd advise to visit it on weekend mornings).Whatever your preferred style may be,you'll find it underground (Slavyanskiy Boulevard for art nouveau, Volokolamskaya for new-age gothic, Park Pobedi for spacious geometry, Kievskaya,Komsomolskaya,the entire circle line for palace-like interiors and incredible mosaics, Rimskaya for all things roman, Belorusskaya for an obscene gate to heaven, Ploshad Revolutsii for statues,Mayakovskaya for elegant sovietism,Trubnaya because it's remarkably pretty)Plus it's  a striking encyclopedia of Russian history,with stations marking the most important  events and people.There are so many legends and curiosities in the metro that I would advise to take a guided tour -however,wandering around on your own is fun,too. Also it's a very romantic date spot (trust me on this one))A must-visit in Moscow!;5;December 7, 2012
Good fun;The art and architecture of the stations is interesting and the system is easy to manage once you work out how to interpret the cyrillic script, and there are plenty of other tourists.;5;December 7, 2012
Underground palace;Each station has its unique beauty and architecture. I like station named Park Cuture the most. Though the trains seem old but the stations themselves are masterpieces;5;December 5, 2012
Went on a tour around the Metro with a guide. Amazing design and architecture;Went around the metro with a guide . Felt perfectly safe . Loads of Soviet and WWII history and statues and paintings on the walls and ceilings . Great two hours on the metro . But if doing it on your own maybe confusing re Russian station names. Hence why we went with a Russian speaker to herd us on and off   the trains to places of interest;4;December 4, 2012
Great way to visit Moscow;Great way to get around Moscow. Be aware that everything is in Cyrillic/Russian so one has to forget ones Latin roots....;5;December 3, 2012
Awesome;Very cool, beautiful, large and efficient. I guess we have things to learn from our friends in Russia.;4;December 1, 2012
Very old metro, but fine to move around;It is not chic but fine to move faster around city. Some stations are really looking great, some just old. During weak days not recommending circle subway, extremely crowd.;4;November 30, 2012
Efficient, but cyrillic;Take a short lesson in the cryrillic alphabet before you ride because you'll need it to read the station names plus signs like 'Exit' and so on. I have some Russian (and cyrillic alphabet) so had no problems, although to make things even more difficult stations don't always have the names written along the platform walls, as say in London or Berlin, so listen out for the spoken announcements too, or count your stops carefully!;4;November 29, 2012
Overloaded and overcrowded;Stations in the center are beautiful but too many people in rush hours make it impossible to enjoy. Overloaded and overcrowded.;2;November 29, 2012
museum like;I understand that this remark will be just another of hundred + comments by Moscovites praising Moscow subway but it has to be said that its truly a work of art especially the first stations that were build in the 30s and 40s. just get abord tre red line (Sokolnicheskaya) and get out at each station. Komsomolskaya is truly jaw-drapping. Try also Plozhad Revolutsii, Mayakovskaya, Belorusskaya and Kievskaya.;5;November 29, 2012
Crazy place you can't skip;Very nice and big, to me, it's easy to find the way if you have the map. If you don't it can be found at almost all of the stations. This is the fastest means of travelling around this huge city. Central stations are like decorated very nicely.;4;November 29, 2012
Architecturally magnificient;The metro stations in Moscow are a piece of Art, i actually took out a day in just visiting several metro stations and admiring their beauty.;5;November 28, 2012
Know your Russian;Very difficult navigating unless you speak or read Russian.  Do some homework and plan your routes and stops in advance as the signage is not in English and did not translate to the names of the stops in our guidebooks.  Trains were clean, fast and efficient and stations are beautiful!  Most attractions are within walking distance of Red Square so you only need to ride once.  Tickets are only (the equivalent of) a few US dollars each and I think we received a slight discount for purchasing ten, well worth it!;3;November 27, 2012
Very efficient and easy to use;The trains come every 3 minutes or less. They are easy to use but you can only buy one ticket at a time on the ticketing machines. The fares are fixed prices will last you to any station no matter how far or short the trip may be.  I would recommend to obtain a copy of a Russian Cyrillic map rather than the English map to figure out what station to get off at. As all of the stations are written in Cyrillic. Also i would get a small tour if you were interested in understanding in depth all the pictures and statues. But if you are happy or a Russian History buff you should be fine to do it yourself.;4;November 24, 2012
Magnificent and not to be missed;This is without a doubt not only the most beautiful, but the most efficient metro system in the world.  The stations are simply amazingly decorated, the detail in the ceillings, in the sculptures, the fabulous mosaics, the paintings, the marble, the chandeliers, is just astonishing.  Every metro has its own theme, whether Komsomolskaya (a tribute to the Komsomol who built it, and our favourite, just lovely), or Kievskaya (with pretty Ukrainian paintings), or Ploshad Revolutsi (built during the war), all different and fascinating, all telling a part of Moscow and Russian history.  On top of that, they are all spotless, beautifully maintained, and the best of all, the train service is unbelievable - the trains run in peak hours (most of the day) every 45 seconds, at night you might have to wait 2 minutes!  Unreal.....and all for the cost of less than a dollar.  Wow wow wow.  We cannot stop telling everyone about this.  You must see it.;5;November 23, 2012
beautiful metro;do not be afraid when you take the escalator to go down : it is really impressive :)If you do not have cyrillic knowledge, there is no problem: just look the 2 first letters of the destination and you will be on the right way.;5;November 21, 2012
The Hidden Art Treasure of Moscow;The Moscow Metro is an intriguing place. It moves millions of people daily, but it is also the hidden art museum of Moscow. The oldest stations are simply incredible - no two alike, and wonderful WWII era/Post WW II era Russian federal art. The newer outer stations at not that artistic, but the older inner city stations are wonderful and well worth seeing.;4;November 20, 2012
Piece of art, fast and reliable;Most of metro stations are very deep down the earth. In some stations you may not see the ends of elevator. Also coaches are quite old and noisy but clean, except brown ring. The service is reliable and punctual. I never had to wait for more than a minutes for metro. Metro stations are worth watching in themselves with some of them being a piece of art. Must visit but be cautious and travel during office hours. Avoid during nights. One needs to pay RUB 28 for one time ticket and you need not pay more till time you are inside metro irrespective of your travel journey.;5;November 20, 2012
The must to visit;As I know, it is the only metro stations network with such architectural, cultural and historical value. The stations are very different in design, some of it are masterpieces. My favorite stations:Novoslobodskaya,Kievskaya (ring line)Kievskaya (arbatsko-pokrovskaya line)Ploschad RevolyuciiElectrozavodskayaKropotkinskayaKrasniye vorotaNovokuznetskayaArbatskaya (arbatsko-pokrovskaya line)Taganskaya (ring line)Prospect Mira (ring line)Komsomolskaya (ring line)Most of the above stations are on 3 lines, so if you are in rush, it will not take too much time, But you could do your own list, just look through the photos on http://news.metro.ru/thebest.htmlThe ticket for one entrance is about 1 usd. Please keep in mind, that Moscow metro is overcrowded in the morning and at the evening in working days. My advice is to visit it in weekend morning.P.S. It was funny to write done, when I visited metro and what was the sort of visit, taking into consideration, that I am the Moscow resident).;5;November 20, 2012
A dont miss in Moscow;Its hard to believe that the system is this old.  But each station is a work of art by itself.  A sight you will not see any where in the world, but only in Moscow.Dont forget to touch the nose of the dog inside the Ploshchad Revolyutsii Metro !;4;November 19, 2012
Moscow Metro is worth a visit in it self.;Moscow Metro beats all other Metros I have visited. Some of the stations are cultural pieces of art. And the if you add that the trains always comes in time, are clean (a bit noicy) and many you understand why I like it. Around 9 milion travellers A DAY!;5;November 17, 2012
Fantastic;Every station is like a French renaissance ballroom. You pay a ticket and can travel as long as you want. Be careful of pickpockets though. Lot's of people earn their living there as thiefs.;4;November 17, 2012
very good if you learn to read the signs;tip just remember the first three letters of where you are going and the last three letters, the colours of the lines and then go with the flow !;4;November 16, 2012
Possible by yourself or with a tour. Easy and incredible.;Just need one ticket and you can cross all the city and just jump out when you like it. Wonderful stations. Just incredible.;5;November 16, 2012
Woooooow;A Masterpiece. It is not alike any other underground railway system in Europe. Each station is unique, palace-like style in most cases, very decorative and spacious. Sometimes the stations are located extremely deep. When going down sometimes you don't see the top of the stairs nor the end.;5;November 15, 2012
Fascinating Metro Stations;On a terribly stormy day, an expat friend took me on the ring tour of the metro ststions, wow! Wedgwood style cameos, bronze statues, fabulous mosaics, art deco leaded glass windows - each station has its own theme. Be sure not to look up as the lighting is also spectacular. But stand in a corner while doing so or you will get run over!!! Be sure to pat the hunting dog's nose for good luck:);5;November 15, 2012
Austrians in Moscow;The deeper the Metro, the more beautiful. Very high up it is absolute not beautiful, but on lower station it looks in some places, people have nothing to do the whole day and the y made this time consuming, wonderful stations.;3;November 14, 2012
Impressive beauty;It was very crowded, but very beautiful stations are worth to visit. Try to avoid pick hours, especially on week days. I was impressed with the beauty and the great history.;5;November 13, 2012
Moscow Metro;This is by far the best way to navigate through Moscow. Its incredibly cheap and arranged in a very logical fashion. Make sure you know how the Cyrillic names of your stations are written and pronounced. Although it becomes obvious after your first time travelling though the station, Kitay- Gorad station is difficult to navigate. Because it is near to many attractions and connects several lines, don't avoid it, just give yourself extra time when changing lines at the station.;4;November 12, 2012
Interesting!;Beautiful yet some stations are in poor conditions,Crowded and a little confuse for the ones who doesn´t speak or read russian...but a experience indeed!;4;November 12, 2012
Very safe and easy to navigate;The stations were beautiful and the metro is easy to use. Make sure you know the russian name for the station you need.;5;November 12, 2012
I wish the tube was this pretty, best way to get round;The metro really is the best way to get round Moscow. Tickets are very cheap and the machines in the station have an English option. The stations are amazing, with high ceilings, chandeliers and marble and are very pretty. Also the trains run very frequently and run late into the night. One thing to be careful of though is that interchange stations on different lines actually seem to have different names so be careful of that. Also note that the entrances / exits from the stations can sometimes be quite a long way apart so try and find the right one.;5;November 10, 2012
An experience!;An experience in itself as well as a very efficient transport system. Convenient and regular servcice although the station names are in Cyrillic so you have to take time to plan where you are going  - work out number of stops and any changes before you set off would be my advice. Stations all really ornate and interesting. Few drunks with bottles of beers and vodka in early morning which was a bit unsettling but generally great experience;3;November 8, 2012
WOW!;The Moscow metro will blow your mind away. They certainly spent some money on them to emphasise the might of the Soviet Union. Well worth a visit and very clean and tidy - also easy to find your way around.;5;November 8, 2012
My new favorite metro;My new favorite subway system is the Moscow Metro. It is also one of the must-see sights of Moscow and the best deal in town; a single ticket (good for one trip anywhere within the system) is only 28 RUB (less than one U.S. Dollar as of Oct, 2012). The system is well-organized, relatively clean, and I never waited more than about three minutes for a train. Practicality aside, the Moscow Metro is most notable for the amazing art installations and architectural details in each station. I didn’t see any of the Moscow Metro Dogs.;5;November 8, 2012
Great help;Moscow is a city famous for the traffic jams.  And than there is a Moscow metro - it been used by millions every day and it is still looks great and brings you to the the destination better than any Bently on the streets of Moscow.  In the hey days of the Soviet Union it was probably a little cleaner but it was grown since and if you are in Moscow it is a must see attraction.  Nothing close to NY subway.;4;November 7, 2012
Unbelievable;Everybody talked about the Metro so I decided to go to 4 stations recommended by locals. Decoration of these stations was soooo beautiful. Do not skip them but make sure you go with a local or that you are really good moving in Metros because although simple EVERYTHING is in Russian.;5;November 7, 2012
Best part of the trip!;The Moscow Metro is outstanding Must be seen, no visit to Moscow is complete without a journey on the Metro!;5;November 5, 2012
a "place" to go;take the circle line, go up and down at each station. You will have one metro each 50 seconds and you have jsut time to see and put some pictures. each one is different. Do not see only the statues or paints. the lights are crazy . they a re differnet in each station and in coherence with the thema of the platform;4;November 5, 2012
Watch your step!;Even though it's the only predictable way to travel in Moscow, be careful and watch your step, especially in the winter and fall.  Do NOT wear nice Italian shoes with leather soles, or you will slip and fall.  Happened to me recently, seriously bruised my back and was horizontal for 3 days.  Wear rubber soled shoes and layered clothing, as it gets really hot inside.;3;November 5, 2012
A Must!;Do not let the idea of navigating the metro scare you. Just know that it will be a little confusing until you figure out the writing. It is actually one of the most logical and simplest metro systems I have ever used in the world. First step: get a map of the metro that you can have in your pocket. My hotel had a brochure titled "Moscow in your Pocket" and it had a small map, listings of sights and restaurants, and a handy metro map too. The metro map will show stations names in Cyrillic, with English just underneath. Second step: buying your tickets at the "Kacca", or Cashier window. Just show how many fingers for how many tickets you want. We were two people so, since we wanted ten tickets each, we showed 10 fingers and then pointed to the other person and showed 10 fingers again. Piece of cake. And super cheap too!Third step: know where you are trying to go because it is true that almost no one will speak English. It helps when you know your destination and can point to that place on a small map, in case you think you are lost.Fourth Step: the map in your pocket and the maps at the station will both show the station names in English. HOWEVER, every other sign and marker will only show it in Cyrillic. Do not panic! All you have to do is revert back to childhood and match the letters you are reading with the letters you need. It actually gets pretty easy. Also, the different lines have both colors and numbers so when you get to a station with connecting lines, make sure you know the color but, just to be safe, also the corresponding number.Fifth Step: learn the Cyrillic sign for "Exit to City". You will see lots of stairs in many directions at some stations - ones for connecting trains and ones for leaving the station. I promise that, once I learned to recognize that sign, I was homefree.Sixth Step: take a deep breath and enjoy!! The stations are glorious and trains come by so very quickly that you can afford to let one or two trains go by if you need time to think. Most stations have comfy seats and you will not feel rushed. Trains come by every 2 minutes or so and everyone is so trained to step to one side before getting on the train or they walk quickly to their train that you can just lean against the wall and study your map and you'll be there in no time!!P.S. - some stations have two levels of trains so look for the sign of a person walking up stairs, for either the exit to the city or the next level of trains.;5;November 5, 2012
Thank you, Marina;We had only two hours left in Moscow and we were looking at the metro map (very difficult) when a very elegant, tiny (me and my husband are three times her size), very gentle lady, asked if we needed help. I explained her that we did not want to leave Moscow without seeing the amazing metro stations that I saw lots of times in different emails. This lady changed my opinion about Muscovites because, until then, they were not very friendly- even in stores – but she offered to show us the most important and beautiful metro stations. It was awesome, firstly because Moscow metro stations are really art masterpieces but specially because of Marina’s kindness and knowledge. She knew everything about each station – the story, the age of building, what is its soul representation. Thank you Marina for the two best hours in Moscow.;5;November 4, 2012
Easier to navigate than you think;Enjoyed travelling the Metro. Was really cheap and easy to navigate. Just follow the colored routes to get to your location.;5;November 4, 2012
beatiful;you can feel russian history, every station is different and each is beatiful in its own way. no delay!!!!!;5;November 1, 2012
Avoid rush hour!;I am a seasoned world traveller but I have never had to fight my way off a train as I did in Moscow. Weekends the system is quiet and easy to use. I made the mistake of trying to get somewhere at 6 in the evening on a weekday. Even Ryanair would be shocked at the scrum that occurred at each station on the No1 line that evening!! Yes, the stations are impressive, long escalators that take you deep under Moscow, and the grey people of Moscow who have non existent queuing skills!;4;October 31, 2012
Impressive Moscow Metro;Strangely impressive. Partly a dark symbol of Soviet hybris, partly a modern transportation system. Lenin statues all over the place.;4;October 31, 2012
Way to go!;Clean, safe, fast and predictable. Best way to quickly get around in Moscow. Trains run every 2 minutes. Architecture of stations is really intersted - there are organized tours that are well worth taking to see the best stations.;5;October 31, 2012
Glimpse in the soviet era achievement;Good way to see how the country tried to solve public transportation issues and make it in a lavish and beautiful way.  All central stations are beautiful and unique each in its own way.  Just take a half a day in a metro hopping on and off the trains off peak to see the lost lusk of the Soviet era.  Thanks God current Moscow mayor has started paying more attention and many stations are under renovation to restore the beauty, pride and love people put building the metro in Moscow;4;October 30, 2012
very convenient mode of commuting; learn the cyrillic alphabet, download a map;we found the trip advisor article on using the metro very useful... the link is:http://www.tripadvisor.com/Travel-g298484-c79491/Moscow:Russia:How.To.Use.The.Metro.htmlwe printed out a map from their official website:http://engl.mosmetro.ru/we bought the card for 10 trips from the 1st station and used the metro through out for our stay... just a little bit of homework on what line to use , where to get down and even take the transfer on the circular line proved very easy... only difficulty is that we had to walk a huge distance for the transfers to the central line inside the underground stations... and negotiate a lot of stairs... some of the stations were really beautiful...at just under 30 roubles for one entire journey, it was very convenient;5;October 29, 2012
This is an underground art museum, a MUST!;From the chandeliers to the statues to the incredible mosaics depicting the perfect Soviet lifestyle, this is a walking history and art museum rolled into one. Plus you get to experience daily life of the average Muscovite as they journey through this big city. Don't miss it! Here is a link to more information about this on my travel blog: www.mytb.org/kelleygirl;5;October 27, 2012
No need to run for the train;Residents from cities across the globe will be surprised by Moscow's metro system. Carrying something in the order of 9 million people per day, train frequency is so close that no-one ever bothers to run for the train.  The stations appear very clean and many are beautiful interior architecture in a very classical (Stalinist?) style.;5;October 27, 2012
Beautiful and extremely fast;The metro in Moscow is the most beautiful I have ever seen. Almost every station is uniquely decorated. Sometimes it looks more like a palace. The metro comes every 1,5 minute. The only bad things are the drunks and that you need some knowledge of russian to navigate.;5;October 27, 2012
Outstanding!;Not only are some of the stations gorgeously beautiful but the metro is one of the most convenient and well organized city transport means I've EVER experienced! Trains come twice every five minutes (maybe even more) and they're incredibly reliable! This gives you lots of flexibility to jump off trains to explore stations such as Mayakovskaya and Novoslobodskaya which are must sees in my opinion! :) AND for under $2.00 to visit all the stations you want? You can't go wrong!;5;October 27, 2012
A beautiful architectural experience complimented by a prompt metro service;Well worth a visit even if you do not intend to travel. There are large bronze statues depicting various heros and events in their military history along side stunning of marble work adorning the walls and ceilings. If travelling, the cost is very reasonable and the trains run every few minutes. A tip is to keep a list of all the stations you will pass to get to your destination so you can be familiar with what the names look like. The metro  carriage has a route list that has a red light running up to the name of the next station to be stopped at which helps.  Russian design and service at its best!;5;October 27, 2012
Fast trains surrounded by art;The ceilings, walls, chandeliers, and bronze statues are magnificent.  Don't forget to pet the now shiny nose of the soldier's dog for Good Luck!;5;October 27, 2012
An underground experience!;Brave the metro and you will find the stations amazing,all decorated in different styles and reasonable easy to negotiate!! We lost ourselves a couple of times but found asking staff soon got is on our way again!;5;October 26, 2012
Metro;The stations are very special, it's a bit hard to know where to go ith the trains, use the maps which are free of charge. Very cheap to travel with, it really works;5;October 26, 2012
Cultural Must do - Avoid peak hours;Cultural experience a must, Moscow hosts some of the most amazing underground stations in terms of art, architecture and depth, it is also a good way of getting around Moscow if you know where you are going, since most of Moscow's traffic is at a constant standstill. However, avoid peak hours if possible, an enjoyable experience can easily turn into rather an unpleasant feeling of being a sardine in a tin.;3;October 25, 2012
Impressive but move fast;Metro is a bit cleaner than NYC or London and much deeper, convenient to travel all over much of Moscow especially to avoid the traffic, very loud, nice mosaics;5;October 25, 2012
a must;make sure you spend a few hours checking out the varied stations especially in the circle line.  It is rather confusing to find your way around, be patient, and remember its no loss to check out more stations than planned.;5;October 24, 2012
Cheap to Visit and Best Way to get Around;The Metro is another must see in Moscow, and really is the best way to get around although a little daunting without a guide. Signs are all in Russian so a map would be necessary. The place is very grand with all the marble and each station is decorated in a different way. We loved the station with all the sculptures - one a man with a dog gave you good luck if you touched his nose. Others had very ornate ceilings with grand chandeliers etc. Rush hour is probably not the best time to tackle the Metro for the first time as it really is packed and there is only standing room on the train. We found the people were very good and they didn't push or shove to get on or off. People also stood for the elderly and those needing a seat. Travelling by Metro is real taste of Moscow we felt. Lastly, if you don't like heights, the escalators can be a little daunting travelling up several storeys in places.;5;October 23, 2012
A living monument;If You are going and visit Moscow, You MUST go around with the Metro.But, remember use a map and train yourself with Cyrillic Alphabet (We found latin written text only inside the trains).You'll enjoy each and every station and you'll move fast inside the City.Remember also to have small change in ruble (one way ticket costs 28 rubles);5;October 23, 2012
art in a surprising place;I had heard about going to the metro but until you do it you will not believe how beautiful it is. All the figures are "kind of " in Soviet art but they are quite amazing.;5;October 22, 2012
Interesting subway stations;It's hard to get around if you can't read cyrillic but it you have a small metro map it should due fine. The stations are crazy.  Loved the Soviet influence in the decor.;4;October 22, 2012
Challenging!;The Metro is very useful for getting about, but the lack of any signs in a language other than Russian, makes it difficult to understand the names of the station or where to go in the station either to the platforms or the exits.  Basic strategy is to follow the person in front and if it doesn't work out ask someone.  You will find someone who speaks English, in my case, eventually!The trains are noisy and old but they get you there.  What is fascinating about the Metro is their achitecture.  Whilst the entrance and ticketing area can be very run down, positively grimy, and portrayed in films of old, gown down the escalators and you descend into a different world.The escalators I saw had a certain old world elegance, lit by central lamp standards with white globes.  The platform areas constructed with high beautiful vaulted arches with carved stonework.  Quite unexpected.I have two tips.  Take a map on the Metro, you can find one on the internet and if you have a smart phone download it before you use the Metro.  Secondly, take a good look around the entrance to the Metro before you go is, so that you have a better chance of recognising where you are when you return and exit.  Some stations have multiple entrances and exits on enormous road junctions.  Taking a photo on your phone isn't such a bad idea!;3;October 22, 2012
Metro Retro;Despite the millions of people crwding ontot he Moscow Metro daily, the platforms and corridors are kept spotlessly clean. There is no pushing or shoving and most people are friendly and helpful.The stations have chandliers, art on the walls and huge statues that go back to Soviet times. It was good to see young people give their seats to the elderly. The metro is an exciting experience and sure beats sitting for hours in Moscow traffic!;4;October 21, 2012
Great subway system!!;While not quite up to Asian standards, I'd take the Moscow subway over any US subway anytime!  Highly efficient, and trains come every few minutes.   Though, if you don't speak Russian, be warned, there's NO ENGLISH ANYWHERE!!!!!;5;October 21, 2012
A dont miss experience;The metro stations were my favorite part of Moscow.  Besides the efficiency, they were bright warm and beautiful. I just stood in awe in all the different stations.;5;October 21, 2012
A must see!;Moscow metro is not only fast, cheap and convenient way to get to any place of the city, but an architectural masterpiece as well. The first line (red) was launched almost a hundred years ago. The most beautiful stations worth visiting are: Novoslobodksaya, Kievskaya, Smolenskaya and Ploshad Revolutsii. Ploshad Revolutsii (=Revolution Square) has many arhces decorated with bronze sculptures related to revolution thematic. Find a sculpture of a man with a dog there, make a wish and touch its nose! Your wish will come true:) You will easily recognize this sculpture by dog's yellow polished nose:))To make your metro journey more comfortable, try to avoid rush hours which normally are from 8 to 10 am and from 6 to to 8 pm. And of course beware of pickpocketers. Especially at Okhotny Ryad station, when you take the escalator down to the train hall. I would also recommend not to hold phone in the hands if you are staying close to train doors. Otherwise it can be pulled out of your hands straight before the doors close and train move.As for the payment, there're no zone or timing fares. You buy one ticket (28 rubles) and travel as long and as far as you want with it.;4;October 21, 2012
a museum under ground;Moscow metro is not only the fastest transport of the city but also  a beautiful historic place.If you want to see the beauty of the stations go there early in the morning on Sunday.Any trip guide will tell you what stations are worth seeing.  If you are short of time, go to Novoslobodskaya, Revolution Square and Park Pobedy (Victory park). Read about Novoslobodskaya beforehand - it would let you know what each stained glass panel means.Find a dog and rubit's nose for luck (Revolution Square) - never!! rub the rooster. The station of Park Pobedy is adorned with two large enameled panels depicting the Patriotic War of 1812 and the Great Patriotic War.If you face the panel  of the inbound platform count 5 or 6  pylons (I don't remember which one)search thoroughly the rose marble of the pylon - you might see ammonite fossil prints there (paleometro.ru)One more hint- stay away from metro stations where the railway stations are (mostly Belorussky , Kazansky, Kievsky, Kursky, Leningradsky) - that is Belorusskaya, Kievskaya, Komsomolskaya - always crowds of people there, unsafe environment.But if you begin your trip to Moscow with rubbing the dog's nose in Revolution Square you are sure to have a nice and pleasant stay!;5;October 20, 2012
Amazing stations;Travel the metro and visit the many beautiful stations on the ring line. Just get off at the staion, have a look around at the mosaics, stained glass, ceramics etc, then hop on the next train and repeat the process. Hard to believe that some are staions and not luxury hotel foyers.;5;October 20, 2012
Fast Trains;What a great system.  Would that all systems were this good.  A train every two minutes during the day, No need to rush, there's always a train there.  Boarding and debarking the cars must be quick and they accelerate and decelerate fast.  Sometimes can be as crowded as the Tokyo lines, but wonderfully interesting for people watching. Hold on.  Also marvel at how the beautifully dressed ladies in 4 inch high heels can stand there without holding on.  A marvel in balance.;5;October 19, 2012
in time :);The first thing that strikes you is the crowd .. that if you choose to walk at rush hours. Then, as you are going with the flow, you notice that every other minute there is a train coming. And then, when the station is almost empty you can notice how beautiful they are from an architectural point of view. The walls are embroidered with ornaments with in other countries can be found in castles. The abundance of marble makes you think that it should be like this everywhere. If you take your minutes to enjoy it, I am sure that even the way to work can be a true pleasure :);5;October 18, 2012
Truly amazing;Fantastic hallways to be stared at in wonder. And a truly efficient train system as well. Do visit if only to gaze at the architecture; it's not to be missed!;5;October 18, 2012
Huge metro and large platforms but no English anywhere;I travelled from my hotel to Kremlin and Red Square.  It was a great journey as someone guided us and came with us.  The escalators were too fast moving and trains start with a jerk always as compared to Tokyo Metros.;3;October 18, 2012
Don't miss the Metro!;The Moscow Metro is a must see. We went with a small group led by a local guide on a very busy evening: Moscow's 865th anniversary of being founded and the September 1st Back to School Saturday! Crowds of people were at all the stations we visited; tremendous hustle and bustle. Wouldn't  want to attempt travelling alone in rush hour, not knowing where we were going! The stations' architecture and decoration are amazing, the escalators are the longest and deepest we've been on, except for the St Petersburg Metro which is the deepest in the world. Unlike St. Petersburg, the Moscow Metro doesn't have any signage in English, or the stations' names written inthe  Latin alphabet under the station name written in Cyrillic. It would be nice to have that luxury! Even though we were in a small group, one man in our group blatantly had his jacket/chest felt up and down front, and pockets by a non-tourist standing next to him. The 'feeler' was obviously looking to see if he could feel a wallet or smart phone etc in the jacket. The tourist ignored him and said and did nothing for fear of causing a reaction/act of violence. If you can't read the Cyrilic alphabet or understand Russian, you need to count the number of stations you're passing through very carefully if you don't want to miss your stop or get lost!;4;October 17, 2012
the best metro in the world;no doubts whatsoever. palace - looking stunning stations, frequent (approx. 1 min in rush hours, not more than 5-6 mins in the last working hours), efficient, overcerowded most of the time. follow the colours of the lines in the stations and passages!;5;October 16, 2012
Moscow Metro;We needed help getting tickets as we were languagely challenged!  But the ticket sellers were very helpful & didn't sell us something we didn't want.  The metro was clean, regular & efficient.  We avoided rush hour as first time users but with practise, I'm sure it gets easier.;5;October 16, 2012
The way to get around the city;Get a Metro map and keep it with you. All signs are in Cyrillic and can be intimidating at first. Many of the stations contain statuary, mosaics, chandaleers and other patriotic art from Stalins era.The trains go almost everywhere you want to go. Just be sure to look at the stations.;5;October 15, 2012
Quite an experience;Try to avoid the Metro at rush hour - it was so crowded it looked like a cartoon!  Noisy and dirty, but even outside rush hour the trains are 2 minutes apart.  They get you where you want to go and FAST!  However, count how many stops you need to go because it is very difficult to understand the announcements and you can't see the names of the stops from inside the train.  You can go all over the city easily and cheaply using the Metro.;4;October 15, 2012
Moscow metro;The Metro in Moscow is the most quick and convenient way of travelling in Moscow, because the car traffic is one of the worst in the world, and it takes too long to get anywhere in Moscow by car.  Moscow Metro would benefit by having some signs (exit, etc!) in English and helpful staff who speak English at platform and ticket level providing guests with travel advice on how to get to your destination.  Street maps in English would also be helpful outside the Metro exits, to assist one in arriving at their destinations by using this efficent (but noisy) public transport which is also very cheap!;5;October 15, 2012
Stations like no other but get used to reading the Cyrillic alphabet;Some of the metro stations are art deco palaces especially Mayakovskaya. the statues in Ploschad Revolyutsii also worth a look. Most of the stations have some Art Deco elements. Its one price to anywhere so no need to worry about different pricing zones. Everything is written in the Cyrillic alphabet though so make sure your map has this on so you know where to get off;4;October 13, 2012
A must!;I think Moscow metro is definitely the most beautiful metro ever! Although it is super underground (very long escalotors) it is really to been! However careful, picture taking is prohibited there so be careful !;5;October 13, 2012
It is nice! However, not too easy to navigate;It is crowded and could be overwhelming. Nevertheless, the architecture in many stations is impressive.;4;October 12, 2012
Moscow Underground – visit during a weekend;If you are planning to visit the Moscow underground and to enjoy the masterpieces of the Soviet architecture do it preferably during a weekend as there will be less crowds. Moscow can be very hectic especially during rush hours. The most beautiful stations are on the ring line – Komsomokskaya, Belorusskaya, Kievskaya, Novoslobodkaya. Ploshad Revolutsii is also  worth visiting, located in the very centre of Moscow.;5;October 12, 2012
Impressive!;The Moscow Metro is impressive indeed. Particularly, the different architectural styles of the various metro stations and the sculptures, paintings, murals etc.;5;October 11, 2012
These will blow your mind!;Try and see as many as possible - amazing! Wonderful mosaics, sculptures, chandeliers, colours and more!;4;October 11, 2012
Moscow Metro;OOO, it was fantastic! Had there a photosession with Yulia from Moscowphotowalks.com . We visited the Revolution Square, Novoslobodskaya, Kievskaya and some other stations. Quite dark there, but we took some great shots!;5;October 10, 2012
Travelling by train/metro;After having bought tickets, the system was much like in other countries. One ticket swipe could give you rides to our destination, if it meant you did not leave the underground.  There were quite  a few beggars, but the pace of the crowd walking meant tha you were not disturbed.  Nobody smiles at you.  Where there were small food stalls, the smell was beautiful.  Trains were crowded.;4;October 9, 2012
Don't miss it;This is one of the most special aspects of Moscow - amazing palaces and art in the metro. Even though the signs are in Russian it is worthwhile asking people how to get to the Metro stops.;4;October 9, 2012
Amazing.;The stations inside the inner circle are the most beautiful in the world. The efficiency of the system is amazing - trains ever 50 seconds in peak time and no more than every 4 minutes in off-peak. WMATA and other U.S. metro services can only feel shame in comparison, and all that at less than $1 a trip!;5;October 8, 2012
Grandest underground in the world;I was blown away by the grandeur of the underground. Every station is different, marble, chandeliers, mosaics, frescoes, sculptures, showing Soviet life, ideals, history and military might. My favourite stations were Komsomolskaya and Kievskaya.And it is efficient too. Trains every 2 - 3 minutes, cheap, and relatively easy to use, as long as you have the Russian & English language version of the map, and plan ahead. its worthwhile reading the metro guide on trip advisor for tips how to get around the metro and buying tickets.There is no need to do an organised tour to see the metro, just follow the tour in the Traveller article section of trip advisor - http://www.tripadvisor.co.uk/Travel-g298484-c4156/Moscow:Russia:Moscow.Metro.Underground.Palace.html  See my blog for photos and stations I visited - http://tctravelphotos.com/wordpress/?p=965;5;October 7, 2012
A Metro Museum;You get the feeling going down the metro that this is a bomb shelter (it is!!!) since you are going down 500 meters or sometimes 1 km down. The art, the architecture is like a museum, it is a WoW - buy a ticket and explore, it is really worth to do this  - visit 3 different subways and be surprised. You see something unique and really nice and also see how Moscovites live;5;October 7, 2012
My favourite Metro;The magnificence of this Metro is hard to describe. Apart from functioning very efficiently (if somewhat crowded for most of the time) the style and decoration of the stations is simply stunning. It is like travelling in a huge underground gallery.;5;October 6, 2012
Scenic, punctual, loud and fast;Absolutely reliable, within 18month living in Moscow I never had problems with the metro. Take your mp3 player as it is terribly noisy in there (except some new trains). Most amazing metro stations can be found on the circle line (brown) just hop on and off on every station. It also is cheap (less than a euro) and you can go everywhere you want to.;5;October 6, 2012
The most beutiful I've ever seen;Moscow metro is beautiful, the big plus of Communist era. Marble everywhere, interiors are fantastic.;5;October 6, 2012
So impressive;I have been using the Moscow metro in many occasions when being there for business as the traffic is just madness in this city... Avoid rush hours and then enjoy the beauty of almost each and every station... As I have always used it with locals I had no major issues.... Was also told there is a free guided tour you can book via internet...;4;October 5, 2012
Complex, yet easy and very beautiful!;The Moscow metro is very complex, especially if you do not speak/read Russian! Do not expect to see many signs even in English! Tip download the metro in English and Russian before you go! Once you come to terms with the Russian alphabet (very different to English) it is actually very easy. I have one on my phone, if you are interested feel free to contact me. My husband took a photo of the map we were given from our hotel, we found this our saviour! Take your time...don't panic, trains come every couple of minutes! Once you master this it is very easy. If you get on the wrong train, get off at the next stop, find a spot to sit and take your time to work it out. Again it is much simpler than it looks and there is absolutely no need to panic. English is not widely spoken and you will not hear any English announcements either. Once you have come to terms with all of that, make sure you take some time to actually look at the stations. They are absolutely beautiful, there is just so much artwork and beauty through out the stations. You can also take a tour of the Metro  with 'Free Moscow Tour' company (it is not part of the free tour), I found it well worth it as they took you to the most beautiful stations and you learn about what you are looking at.;5;October 4, 2012
Unbelievable;Everyone says how fantastic this is but there are no words to describe the experience and photos don't do it justice either. Very easy to use, cheap travel and worth getting off at each station just to see the decorations. Every one is different, lit by chandeliers and spotlessly clean, no graffiti anywhere.I understand the system was designed by the Brits!;5;October 4, 2012
Some will think it s a palace... Memorial to communist times;2 or 3 hours will be enough for visiting major stations within the circle line. The cheapest excurion in Moscow! For only less than 1 USD (28 rbs) one can stay the whole day underground. Visit major stations on the circle line plus Mayakovskaya, Ploshad Revolucii, Biblioteka im Lenina. Best time for visiting - during the day. Avoid rush hours.;4;October 4, 2012
WOW;The hallways are works of art. The metro is incredible cheap, we spent 5 hours doing a station tour taking pictures.;5;October 3, 2012
Take your camera;So we were in Moscow last week and had some free time and decided to explore around the Metro.  We took the dark blue line from Smolenskaya to Kievskaya.  Switched to the brown rail and made the loop around back to Smolenskaya and then returned back to our starting point- all for 28 rubles per person.  At each of the brown rail stations, we got off and looked around before re-boarding.  We did it without getting lost and not being able to read cyrillic as others have noted.  I feel that we got to experience much of the metro compared to a guided tour at 1% of the cost.  Here are some tips if you decide to do the same (some will be a repeat from other posters but repeated beause we found them that important.)1) Get a map with the cyrillic names... not just the arabic/english translation.  In fact, knowing the english name of the station has no notable value I can share as I type this.  However, by matching the Cyrillic name on the map to the names on the stations and the signage was very helpful and allowed me to self navigate.2) Related to #1... get a good map (or even better a good iPhone/Android app).  It is worth noting that some stations (e.g.  Smolenskaya has two different stations with the same name and even though they have the same name, they aren't connected and you can't transfer between the stations without leaving one station, crossing, and re-entering the other (which means paying the new fare).  Similarly, as others have noted, one station may have multiple names depending on which colored rail it serves- but not always.  Confused yet? 3) Going around the brown rail was EASY.  We simply got off at every stop, enjoyed the scenery and reboarded the same train going in the same direction.4) We discovered the front and end cars were MUCH less crowded than those in the middle.  We observed that cars in the middle often had standing room only while we were able to secure a seat every single time by getting on the last car.5) Not all stations were equally beautiful.  In fact, some were simply ugly (sorry Moscow) but there were ~3 that made the entire trip worthwhile.  Their were stunning mosaics and intricate details that were just amazing.  I wish I had taken pictures.6) Here's the kicker... I had read some other places that it is against the law to take pictures in the Metro stations.  This simply isn't true.  From the Moscow metro website "Amateur photography (without using stationery equipment) in Moscow metro is not prohibited and therefore no permission is necessary."  src: http://engl.mosmetro.ru/pages/page_0.php?id_page=69  I really wish I had discovered this last truth before going on the metro but I adhered to the wrong advice so I didn't get pictures of my own.  :-(   Maybe I can post this in time to help others.The only reason I am giving 4 instead of 5 stars is because they don't have bilingual signage.;4;September 30, 2012
Fast, safe, and cheap;Faster than a jammed in tour bus, buckets of rubles cheaper than a taxi. Riding the metro is easy, scenic, and gives a better sense of the Russian people than just dealing with a layer of tourist operators. There are some great tours but ride the metro somewhere and back. The art and architecture is really unique.;4;September 30, 2012
Better than 'the tube';The Metro system in Moscow is the easiest way to get around. Any trip, no matter how far or how many connections costs a flat rate of around 50p and the metro stations themselves are very pretty with marble and statues in every direction.I was surprised with how considerate the russian commuters are. The second that an older person or a lady steps onboard, immediately someone gets up to give them a seat - that doesn't happen in London very often.;4;September 30, 2012
Easy to navigate, just need patience!;Despite countless horror stories about the crowds, my feet were so broken today that I decided to take my chances and use the Moscow Metro to go sight-seeing. I was pleasantly surprised by how easy it was. Signs are ONLY in Syrillic - make sure you have a map with both Roman and Syrillic names of stations. Guards at ticket check points may not speak English but will point you in the right direction if you show them which station you are going to. Each line is numbered and color coded. Hanging from the ceiling above the platform are boards listing every station that will follow, so as long as you can recognize your station name in Syrillic.Keep in mind - there can be crowds, and people often rush past, but just stand off to the side and get your bearings before your proceed. The trains themselves are nothing special, but they are frequent even during non-peak times (every 2-3 minutes). And of course, the stations themselves are gorgeous, with works of art everywhere. DON'T FORGET TO LOOK UP!!!  FYI we took a separate Metro Station Tour on our last day by a company called Moscow Free Tour (see their tripadvisor page) which was great.;5;September 29, 2012
Efficient;In the city where traffic is the worst I have ever seen, the only, and I mean it, way to travel around Moscow is on metro. Yes it is crowded, but it gets you there cheap and fast.;5;September 29, 2012
Easy to navigate if you speak Russian;The Metro is the most beautiful and lavishly decorated transportation system in the world, there are marble decorated stations. Of course, there are a lot of communist themes, the Metro construction started 1935....it seems easy to navigate but some Russian is an advantage if you happen to be in the station where 3 lines are crossing...also other people than personnel of the metro are not willing to give you directions even if you speak some Russian...or maybe they did not want to give it to us?;5;September 29, 2012
An experience you will never forget;Buy a coin (28 ruble- 0,70 euro cent) and visit several metro stations. You do not have to pay again if you stay underground.  It is allowed to take photos (no flash) but not on the escalators. In the metro: try to find a place and sit down, the metro goes very fast. It can be very crowded, be careful of pickpockets.;4;September 28, 2012
Not excatly what I expected but great;My expeience with the system was limited to a few rides and a few stations.  I guess that i expected an art gallery per stop.  Not quite.  What I got was a highly efficient, clean modern metro, fast trains with what must be the some of the deepest stations and fastest escalators (the ADA wouldn't be happy). On the other hand the art work is there and is impressive.  You cannot possibly see Moscow without visiting the Metro ride a few stops hopping off here and there and just retrace your steps.  You won't get lost even though no English is used in the signage.;5;September 28, 2012
The most beautiful metro in the world!;Such a huge and beutiful stations you'll never see in any other city or contry in the world! But don't visit it during early morning or in the end of the day, because it's going to be very full. Big plus is that trains are going every 1,5 minute. Very comfortable and fast kind of transport (but remember about rush-hour times).;4;September 28, 2012
A must see attraction in Moscow;It is very beautiful and interesting but it would be better if you are in a guided tour. We had a Russian guide (from the freeetour.com , that cost us 24 euros each person for the two hours tour in the afternoon) with the two of us who showed us the main metro stations with all the history and information about them. Besides this we could move from a station to another very easily. The metro is a legacy of the communist regime.  We are told that the government’s idea there was to build a living art museum and demonstrate that while other countries have built palaces for their kings, there they have built palaces for the people. Each of the stations has a different style of art, architecture, history and expresses different connotation. They all celebrate their heroes, values, ideals, conducts, etc . It is definitely a must see attraction in Moscow.;5;September 26, 2012
Amazingly beautiful....;You have to join the tour inorder to see the actual subway where the beautiful artworks and chandelier are,  otherwise there are certain  subway station  that is more  beautiful than others.;5;September 24, 2012
Subway;What a ride!!!  Who would imagine fine art at the different stations.  Our guide took us to several and pointed out the differences in the exhibits.;5;September 24, 2012
gorgeous and cheap;Be sure to go down down down into the deepest parts of the city where you can enjoy marble walls, enormous chandelliers, incredible mosaics, and all kinds of art while making your way affordably and quickly around the city.  All trains come every 2-5 minutes so you never have to wait long so make time to look up and check out each station because each is unique.  Also, go and visit each of the train stations which are also along the metro lines and equally if not more amazing.;5;September 24, 2012
Not the New York subway system;Took a ride on the metro. Went down the 275 ft. escalator to the subway. The stations are works of art, with mosaics and painting on the walls. The walls are marble and granite and the stations are beautiful.;5;September 24, 2012
Beautiful train stations;I have just returned from a river cruise in Russia.  The stations on the green line in Moscow are awesome.  For just a few rubbles, you can get on and off as often as you want and change lines to see even more art work.  Of course when you leave the train station then you would have to pay again to get back onto the train system.  The way they have set up the different lines is wonderful.  All the lines work off the central circular line.  I live in NY and have never been on an escalator the length of the Victory Park station.  2 1/2 minutes moving quickly!;5;September 24, 2012
Tour a variety of metro stations in Moscow.;I never thought metro stations can be used as an attraction tour. For me Metro was nothing more then transportation. All my perception changed after my visit to the Moscow Metro. Every metro station in Moscow is actually a small museum itself, describing a specific subject. Our first stop was the revolution. Already at this station you can admire the size of the place.Wide platforms, very high ceilings with huge chandeliers hung lengthwise, and along the walls wall paintings mosaics, stained glass and sculptures. Of course all the pictures or sculptures belong to a single topic that corresponds metro station. More stations that we have been are: Kievskaya, Novokuznetskaya and Kurskaya.;4;September 24, 2012
Every subway trip became an Agravating Ordeal;The good spin is that the Metros stops are beautiful, a must tour if you have the time.  The bad spin is that we found no signs in English or French or German or Spanish only Russian.  every trip became difficult.  Though the trains are color coded it was still very difficult for us to read the signs, and we had to ask about 5 to 8 people each time how to get to a certain destination.  In short the Metros in Moscow are not tourist friendly.  One needs a lot of patience in finding out how to get to a certain destination. I'm sure after a week, we would have worked it all out but we did not have that luxury. .;3;September 24, 2012
Reminded me of Washington DC's Metro;Very familiar and comfortable, though crowded. Thankfully, I was accompanied by Russian speakers that helped us all navigate the system. It worked great for us. Very interesting decode as well.;5;September 24, 2012
Tiring, but exciting;First of all, the metro is the fastest way to get around Moscow; trains come at very short intervals and go like the clappers (all for just 28 rubles a ride). It is crowded at rush hour - but that is an experience in itself. Being able to read Cyrillic is a big help in getting to where you want to go, but you don't need any Russian to buy tickets. Second, the metro is a sight in itself. Some of the stations are magnificent relics to Stalinist folly, decorated like palaces with mosaics and statuary of that era. Not to be missed!;5;September 24, 2012
Amazing underground world;We took a guided tour with ToursbyLocals and loved it! We vividly recomend it, you get all the history details that make the place great.;5;September 23, 2012
Easy to use;We thought we would struggle using this because of the Cyrillic alphabet, but as long as you have a metro map with the names in both Cyrillic and Roman it is easy.  Each platform has a linear diagram showing the station you are at in red and the rest of the stations following, stations already passed through are in grey.  It only costs 28 rub to travel and some to stations are so beautiful.  Beware of pickpockets and don't carry your camera around your neck, especially if you have an expensive lens.;5;September 23, 2012
Transport At An Affordable Price;these trains maybe abit shabby and old but they are value for money for about 75p a ride you can put up with it;5;September 22, 2012
What timing!;Very crowded at most of the times but it's a disciplined crowd. No pushing, no shoving. The frequency of the trains during peak office hours is 30 secs, yes - 30 secs. It's like clock-work. You can here the rumbling of the approaching train before the rumbling of the departing train stops. Just great.The stations are very well kept and the interior design is something to boast off. Its so beautiful and pristinely maintained for decades(since the Communist era).The stations are located deep inside and it takes more than 2 mins on the escalator to go to the platform level, but sadly the names of most of the stations are written in Russian language, so if you don't carry a map of the metro written in Russian as well as English you are in deep trouble. The Muscovites will not be able to help you as very few knows and understands English.;4;September 22, 2012
An attraction by itself;Aside from it being efficient and functional, fast, clean and reliable. Tagged as the palace of the masses.  the metro of moscow is a sight to see at almost every stop. Its lavish architecture and interior is like no ordinary metro.;5;September 21, 2012
worth a visit;You can`t visit Moscow and miss a visit to the Metro. It`s really amazing. There`s nothing like it in the world. Every station is different from the others, and the paintings & decoration are unique.;5;September 21, 2012
Fast, frequent and dirty like hell;If you don't have to use it during rush hours you are lucky. Some stations get trains every 30 seconds! There are tens of nicely decorated but not well-kept stations. A tour of the stations is a must for anyone who visits Moscow.;5;September 18, 2012
just like any other underground...only beautiful;If you've ridden them in London, Paris, Singapore or Hong Kong the underground in Moscow is really no different with one exception, the stand out stations that are known as 'Palaces underground'. They are well known, beautiful, and you must see them. A one day pass allows you to hop on and off as you please. They're generally safe, clean, efficient and very fast.;4;September 17, 2012
Metro Russian....every city should take note !!!;With approx 8 million visitors a day which is London and New York equivalent put together , this system is truly amazing  ....Clean, safe, cheap and out of a museum beautiful .....it is not only a must to see but the only way to get around Moscow. As long as you get a map and take a few mins to plan your journey you can do it, If changing trains which you will have to do , stand to one side get your barings and if you get lost it dosent matter as 1 zap of your card allows unlimited travel till you exit the system !!! I managed it and have no understanding of the language and never been before .;5;September 17, 2012
Moscow...Moving in style.;The Moscow Metros are certainly not just underground rail systems.  Each station has a beautiful design and have a story of their very own. I can't select a date when I visited because there are so many.  Loving in Moscow the Metro is a way of life.;5;September 15, 2012
Simply Fascinating;I loved the designs on the Moscow Metro,  I can only remember the name of one of the best, Ploshchad Revolutski (excuse spelling) but there were several others.  It really is worth a stop to get out and take a look around, simply amazing.  It's a very fast service on the metro too.  As for signage and getting from A to B - very stressful without the English alphabet.  Check out the Trip Advisor forums for getting around on the Metro before you go if, like me, you don't speak/understand a work of Russian!;5;September 13, 2012
Stunning!;Even if you are not fan of metro this is a must. All those various structures, unbilivible what you can see there. I was speechless. And yes, you have metro every 2 min and very easy connections with other ones which will take you where you wanna go!Have fun!;5;September 13, 2012
Metro;WOW! was the Metro FUN! There are 191 stations. The ones I went to were all in Marble, music and beautiful orginal paintings. Plan to spend time walking around before getting on the 10 second opening and closing of the Metro doors.;5;September 12, 2012
underground museum;we paid  for a guided tour of the Moscow metro and were able to cover most stations in 1 hour. It was money well spent although it would have been fun getting lost in this most interesting city where English is rarely spoken.;4;September 11, 2012
The Moscow Metro: A Museum to the Viewers;I was fascinated by the Moscow metro on my current visit to Russia on a conference.The architectural beauty of the metro stations, their esthetic disposition and  overall majestic layout seem to be beyond any comparison. The remarkable frequency with which the trains arrive at the platform will surprise anybody.  No body should have the excuse of late arrival because of delayed arrival of trains or for missing a train.   I have had personal experience at stations like Arbatskya, Komsomolskya, Ploshchad Revolyutsii and Okhotny Ryad. Many of these stations were built during the period 1935 -  1941 as bomb shelters with the future plan of converting them in to metro stations Arbatskaya is a famous example. It is 41 m deep from the ground surface.A visit to Moscow  should be a great experience for any traveler.;5;September 10, 2012
metro stations highlight history;The metro stations highlight various times of Moscow history, some adorned with marble statues and other with jewel mosaics.  The metro merits a quick trip.  It is worthwhile to bring a good camera.;4;September 9, 2012
Amazingly Efficient, But Take Some Time To See The Stations;The Moscow Metro is amazing.  It cost about  30 rubles (a dollar) a ride and even for those who don't speak a lot of Russian it is easy to navigate.  The ticketing system is easy to use and the turnstiles even tell you how many trips are left on your pass (which we would recommend buying).  They are clean, people behave mostly in a civilized manner, and the trains are fast.  We never had to wait more than three minutes for a train and our average wait was closer to a minute.  We loved using it to ride around Moscow.  It was the nicest and most efficient Metro system we have used anywhere.  So an A+ for utility.  But even if it weren't, you would want to visit for the beautiful stations, designed to be showplaces in the late 1930s through the mid-1950s.  They are not only beautiful, but clever and often, in a way, fun. It's pretty easy to visit the best stations are many are close together.  Typically you can step off the Metro, look around and take pictures, and then hop on board the next or another train as they come so quickly.   The best stations we saw were:Mayakovskaya:  This station is beautiful in it's own, but the real attraction is a set of 33 mosaics in the ceiling that act like you are looking up through a window at something in flight.  All are a delight.  One was of a blimp over the Kremlin, another of a biplane going through searchlights at night, another of a ski jumper soaring over your head.  Ploshad Revolutsy (Revolution Square):  This one has many dozen life-size bronze figures of Soviet citizens.  You can walk up and touch them and noone minds.  Our favorite was the man with the dog.  Everyone seems to rub the dog's nose for luck so it shines.  There are several platforms at this station, so if you don't see the statues, find a different one.Novoslobodskaya: This one has a bunch of stained glass windows underground.  They are backlit so they look more like outside windows.  It's unbelievable that something like this can exist in a public transit system.Kievskaya:  The Kievskaya station has all kinds of upbeat Soviet images in shield shaped frames.  Park Kultury:  The Park of Culture (Park Kultury) station is ornate and notable for the marble and carvings. Komsolmoskaya:  The Komsomolskaya station reminded me of a Baroque opera house with lots of intricate plasterwork and murals on the ceiling. The murals depict the fight for freedom in Russian history from Alexander Nevsky to the taking of the Reichstag.Belorusskaya: The Belorusskaya station (Belorus) was beautiful inside and out, but the outside’s appearance was obscured by extensive construction on the square or circle in front.  Inside it had kind of a plaster grid on the ceiling and artwork in octagonal “frames.” Park Pobedy (Victory Park):  This is a more modern station, but the rose-colored stone is magnificent.  Wait a minute until the passengers depart from the train and look down the way towards the colorful mosaic, which you can see reflected in the gleaming black and white stone flooring.  This station is one of the contenders for the deepest metro station in the world (it depends on how you measure the depth).  It takes about 3 minutes to get to the surface on the enormous escalator and you can visit Victory Park when you get to the top.By the way, you probably want to get a decent map of the Metro.  We started with very small card, which was confusing, but had no problem once we started using a larger map from our guidebook.  You can probably visit and enjoy all of these stops in the space of 90 minutes, but you will find other attractive Metro stations all over Moscow.;5;September 9, 2012
Best in the World!;A really must do in Moscow.  We spent all afternoon riding the metro and getting on and off to take photos on the stations.  The stations are huge and ornate and all different.  Some contain statues, others mosaics and huge chandeliers.  The stations are spotlessly clean and big and airy.  We had a full afternoons entertainment for around 55p each!;5;September 9, 2012
A must see;You shoud take tim eto see a few of the best stations... They are live museums.. Old but very well taken care os and very clean..;5;September 8, 2012
Very Very pretty, but jolly busy;I just love the design and style, its easy to use and at 28 Rubble's per trip not the expensive. Its easy to use if you get a good map and simple to travel. Just watch out as it gets very busy and they have ticket machines which have English language displayed.;5;September 8, 2012
New York Could Take a Hint ...;Mini museum ... originally constructed under Stalin to prepare for the war, these Metro stops functioned as meeting rooms, hospitals, and bomb shelters we were told.  We just saw a few but they were a lens to the Soviet times;5;September 2, 2012
Far more than just transport;Fast, cheap, and a great way to get around Moscow. Trains run every few minutes and the carriages themsleves are quite modern, many with a moving station sign, great if you don't read Cyrillic script. Can be crowded but still worth using anywhere you need to go. The most amazing thing though is the Soviet-era mosaics and statues which really take you back to the days of the USSR. Many stations are beautifully designed in themselves, with archways enclosing long halls. Try to avoid the urge to take photos though as it's illegal and you can be arrested for it. Or at least make sure there are no police or security guards nearby. Be aware that stations which connect different lines usually have different names and take quite a deal of walking to reach through a maze of tunnels.;5;September 2, 2012
Just a beatiful place even if you do not take it;I could not believe now beautiful metro stations could be until we visited and took a tour. If you get a chance you must do this every stop is different from Stain Glass art work to outstanding sculptures. The lighting fixtures were very interesting. Art work are all story telling. Lots of security and police we felt very safe.;5;September 1, 2012
Subway or Museum?!;The Moscow Metro was a highlight of my trip. And "metro" is the train/subway, NOT the "Metropolitan" museum. But it COULD be. Many of the stations are absolutely beautiful. Pushinskaya was a favorite. There's even a tour.It's easy to buy tickets - just queue and hold up fingers. Cheap ticket prices are the same regardless of where you're going, so the  rude, obviously NYC trained "token clerks" can hardly be bothered to know, and don't DARE offend them by trying to ask directions, let alone trying to pronounce the names of the stations.It's also easy to manipulate (just remember the colors AND the numbers of the lines! and the Cyrillic sign for "this way out"), and check the side maps (I personally couldn't figure out the maps behind the trains, but the ones entering the quay are the same as the ones you buy. You might want to buy one, as Muscovites have a tendency to act as if this is their first subway ride and can always be found studying the maps like a tourist.And Muscovites are always in a hurry, so no one even notices if you're standing around looking at the ceilings and walls - unless you're standing in their way!However, it is NOT for the physically impaired. It's a HIKE! It may well take you longer to change trains at the interchange than it took you to walk to the subway. And it's deep! Funny how the escalators ALWAYS seem to be going UP! So, all you can do is ride it and wait. And waiting gives you a great opportunity to observe the beautiful structure of the building.;4;August 30, 2012
Very fast;The metro in Moscow is very fast, you never have to wait long to get a train. I don't know the frequency but I think I never had to wait for more than 4 minutes. The system is well organized, the main lines have roman lettering inside the trains next to the Cyrillic. The distances between stops is rather long, if you use the metro to get around Moscow you might have to walk quite a bit to your station.The gates where you have to hold your ticket to a scanner are open and only close when you try to enter without a ticket. Be sure to walk through gate left of the scanner, otherwise the gate will close and could hit you where it really hurts... ;-);4;August 29, 2012
It's very efficient and very clean, but you can go just for the art!;A friend forewarned me before my first trip to Russia that Moscow's Metro had beautiful art, but I had no idea!  There are mosaic tile scenes, water colors, life-size bronze statues, and the ceilings have plaster designs that equal the ceilings in the royal palaces.  You can spend hours just drooling over the art work-- each station has a theme and an art medium.  2) It's cheap since you only pay for each entrance, so you can ride for hours viewing different stops for one fare.  3). Like the city, it's VERY clean, and 4) it's VERY efficient -- trains come almost back-to-back even when it's NOT rush-hour.  5). Like most Metros today, it's also color-coded and navigable -- even tho all signs are in Russian.  I didn't speak a word of Russian, but got from the airport to my hotel with a bag with no do-overs.  Since capitalism replaced communism in the 1990's, Russian students must take English and I was told to ask a young person if I needed help.  They were not only friendly, but also eager to help -- even before I asked sometimes.  I guess my face said "Help!"  Tour groups have the metro on their agenda.  You can even buy postcards of the art-filled stations.  Don't leave Moscow without enjoying it.;5;August 29, 2012
the way a metro should be run!;The metro is the most efficient rail network ive ever seen. Never more than a 3 minute wait for a train, even on a Sunday! the trains can be crowded at times but the regularity of them means this has been (personally speaking) an exception rather than the rule. Can find your way anywhere in the city and generally theres a metro near each of the major sights so cheaper and quicker than any other public transport.If the weather aint great and you want some sights, a tour of some of the more glamourous and ornate stations can be done on the price of 1 ticket (which is about 50 pence) as some of the stations are amazing works in themselves (just see the amount of tour groups which carry out metro trips). If your new to the cyrilics, map your trip in advance and you shouldnt go wrong.;5;August 27, 2012
No Moscow without the metro;You have to use the Metro while in Moscow, its the only way to experience and explore the city. The stations are decorated and have themes, be sure to find some reading before visiting. I struggled to understand the Metro lines as all is in Cyrillics, but do not fear, you do get used to the routes and get to understand the system. And you will always find many helpful Russians where ever you go!;4;August 27, 2012
The most characteristic metro in the world;Superb. Every metro station is differently furnished. Ceilings and chandeliers are the leading actors of the scene.;5;August 26, 2012
learn it, the way to travel around the city;Pretty cheap, a US dollar pretty much gets you a ride anywhere within the city.  Just have to learn the system which isn't very hard.  Much cheaper than any taxi or tour easily.  Not overcrowded usually either, and some of the stations are amazing works of art within themselves.;5;August 25, 2012
Cheapest, Most interesting Tourist Attraction;For the price of a subway ticket, you can see the beautiful architecture and designs of the metro. Until you see the statues, mosaics, stained glass pictures, and other art, you won't realize what you're missing. I went with a guide who explained in depth the pictures, and statues.;5;August 25, 2012
Going Underground;Once you've got the hang of the cryllic signs, this system of transport is easy and cheap to use.  Most everywhere has access to a metro station.  It can be busy and extremely hot, but for moving around its great fun (as a tourist).;5;August 23, 2012
Moscow Metro Scenic Ring;One of excursions with Viking River Cruises was taking the Metro from the dock to the historic district.  We made a stop at one the Metro stations on the ring and were so impressed that a few days latter we went back and took that ring all the around and getting off at each stop.  Wow, talk about impressive. Most of the building of the Metro some 120 feet below ground was done during the Stalin era so all of the tributes to Communism remain in tack today.  The escalator’s are a real treat so be sure both an up and down experience on them.;5;August 23, 2012
Incredible "Russian art nouveau" or Jugendstill;We visited the Moscow Metro, just as you would visit a building or museum for its beautifull architecture.The ligthers are incredible;5;August 23, 2012
A sight in itself;Interesting to see all the decor in the tubes!  Certainly worth a visit just to see it.  Also we found it a really useful way to get around the city - once you get used to all the Russian characters it was fine to navigate around.;5;August 23, 2012
WOW!!! Stunning!;Take a tour for this as it can be confusing! But loved the metro its so pretty and elegant in parts, a secret city!!;5;August 22, 2012
Fast, clean;The best way to get about in Moscow, and much cleaner than the Paris Metro. Busy of course and it helps to have memorised the station names you need if you don't read Cyrillic.;5;August 22, 2012
metro;what a transportation system really envie them. beautiful stations with art .marble evreywhere and chandaliers for kight fixtures. wow!!!!!!! the best thing about it on tine and reliable;5;August 21, 2012
unexpected;This is a wonderful place to visit.  The variety of stations make you wonder. The mosaic and paintings on the wall is fantastic. it is worth the trip.;4;August 21, 2012
What an experience;First of all, nothing is in English, so: (1) learn the Cyrillic alphabet, or (2) go with a Russian.  The natives are unhelpful altogether.  I did love descending and ascending the LONG escalators and seeing the metro ladies sitting in their booths, doing much of nothing - sleeping, staring into space, whatever.  Want a useless job?  That's the one!;5;August 21, 2012
Ride with a view;The metro in Moscow is an art show in itself, particularly the brown line which dates back to the days of Stalin who wanted his people to be proud of this while suffering otherwise.  For a small fee you can ride the metro, get off at each stop to look at the station, then hop back onto another train til the next stop, look at the station and repeat the process.;5;August 21, 2012
A piece of history;Some stations , which were built by Stalin - are amazing. And pay attention : Stalin himself was hidden and was removed from the walls by the new authorities;4;August 21, 2012
best transport in town;i don't understand how you could travel otherwise in Moscow when you don't need carrying stuufconvenient and easy, why take a car and spend 4 times as long going there;5;August 20, 2012
A must-see sight for tourists!;History, art, Communist propoganda, dining halls, bomb shelter, historic trains, people!  The Moscow Metro has it all!;5;August 19, 2012
Central stations are beautiful;But be prepared that the stations are crowded. Moscow metro is the transport, not just a museum. I recommend you Novoslobodskaya, Maykovskaya, Ploscad Revolutsii  stations;5;August 19, 2012
An Underground Art Museum;Is this a subway or an art exhibit?  I’ve seen art exhibits that were less impressive than the collection of mosaics, statues and architecture that make up the Moscow Metro.  In addition to the amazing sights it’s one of the most utilized subways in the world.  The MTA in NYC could learn a thing or two about how to run a subway from here. I never waited more than 3 minutes for a train and never had one stop in the tunnel or anything. During rush hour trains come in about a minute. Ask somebody about the legend of Stalin’s cup of coffee.;5;August 19, 2012
Efficient and interesting;Using metro in Moscow is very challenging. There is no English station names like metro in St Petersburg. Everything in Cyrillic. But don't be afraid, you only need to bring metro map with Cyrillic and English station names. It is very useful and everything then become manageable. Using metro in Moscow is very efficient because of its extensive networks, very frequent schedules and cheap. On top of that the metro stations are very impressive, the sculptures, paintings and decorations. It is also very clean. I met some gorup of 'metro station tours'. It is interesting, to see people enjoy the metro station like in museum. For those who are Doestoevsky's fans, Doestoevsky metro station is worth a visit.;5;August 19, 2012
more than transportation;the story behind the sculpture are very fascinating and their superstitious powers for the moscow people is very adorable I hope that every one who visit the subway will have the same luck as me;5;August 18, 2012
Look at the artworks, forget the trains;Whilst this is a very efficient method of mass transport its the mosaics and statues and paintings on the walls that really are the stars. Get a good guidebook that tells you which ones to see. The paintings of gallant russian peasants are just stunning.;5;August 18, 2012
Interesting in its own right;I had heard about the art in the Moscow underground stations, but it exceeded my expectations. We used the Metro to get from the suburbs to the centre for sightseeing and found it easy to get around with a map which had both Cyrillic and English station names. One trip costs 28 Rubles, so get off at a number of stations, look at the art (mosaics, paintings, sculptures) without coming out at the surface, and carry on to the next one - all for one fare.;4;August 17, 2012
Variety is spice of life!;The best thing about the metro and the stations is you will see a form of art adorning every station. A station with murals, another with glass painting, so on and so forth. Its good to travel to different stations just to praise the beauty of the art in each.;4;August 16, 2012
The cheapest (and best?) tourist attraction / art gallery in Moscow;Excellent system, each trip to anywhere is one credit. You can buy single or multiple trip tickets which you scan at entry barriers like most metros. Each trip cost approximately £1, though you can of course get off at as many stations as you like to admire the fantastic architecture. Trains are every two minutes so if you get bad weather spend an hour or so touring the stations. Most impressive stations tend to be on the circle line (which also has new air-conditioned trains) but all stations have some interesting features. It is worth taking a metro map with you and planning a little in advance as station signs are only in Russian alphabet most free maps have both Russian and English translations as do the information points at stations. We went wrong a couple of times but it is no problem as the trains are so frequent and the network of interchanges extensive. All the main tourist attraction are within sight of a metro entrance. Also very useful for people arriving by long distance trains, there are excellent interchanges stations, just look for the red "M" sign.;5;August 16, 2012
Quick, cheap and easy (well, fairly easy) way to zip about the city;Just getting off at  various stops to admire the gleaming marble, amazing artwork, and incredibly clean floors is worth the cheap price of admission .. something like $1 to zip around the city, a bargain at the best of times, and particularly so given Moscow's famous (infamous) traffic jams. As many have noted, the signs are rarely in English, and getting turned around is easy to do ... keep your wits about you and your hand on your wallet. The subway trains themselves are old and grubby (at least the ones I was on), the trains do not reflect the standard of the stops themselves .. in other words, typical of most subways in major cities. Cheap, fast and efficient!;5;August 15, 2012
It's almost prettier below ground;You have to use the Moscow Metro, if for no other reason than to see the acres of marble and artwork adorning the walls.  If you can't read or understand Russian it takes a while to get your bearings and we made a few mistakes and found ourselves going in the opposite direction to that which we wanted, but we didn't care, it meant getting off at a station we would not ordinarily have visited and that meant getting to see another beautiful station.  Moscowvites rush through their underground system at pace, I don't understand why, as it is probably the most beautiful part of their city.;5;August 14, 2012
Go for a tour with a local or a guide;The various subway stops are pretty interesting and are all different. Very curious to see the amount of time and money likely spent on this during the communist years when people had to stand in line for bread, but each stop is different and all are extremely interesting;5;August 13, 2012
Historical System;It's the world's busiest metro system.  Some stations feel like a museum.  Very cheap (less than $1 per trip) and the best way to get around the city as the traffic is a nightmare.  Be aware that the signs are in English so you need to brush up on your cyrillic.;4;August 13, 2012
an eye opener;not what i expected at all, what a clean original place.  London underground people should go and see how its really done;4;August 12, 2012
Navigating the Moscow Metro;Loved the stations and the story that they tell.  If you think in patterns you will figure it out even if you dont understand Russian.  Fast, reliable, and for $1 accessible to everyone.;5;August 12, 2012
A Soviet era history lesson -- best seen on weekends;I suspect the many millions of Russians who use the Moscow Metro each day don't pay much notice very often, but each station is, in its own way, a lesson in the Stalin Soviet era. The artistry is excellent, and it presents a window into the values Soviet leaders hoped to impart in their underground "Palaces for the People".  The Metro, by the way, is spotless, and even on weekends, trains come in every two minutes and are full. Something to keep in mind: our guide says they don't even try tours on weekends -- it is just too much of a mob scene.;4;August 11, 2012
Artistic aproach of the mass transportation network;the 10 or so metro stations decorated with statues , mosaics and socialist slogans , are  the  ...cheapest museum of Socialist Realism Art. It is intersting and has fun. Ask for the best ones;4;August 11, 2012
World top metro stations;Palaces for the people - this is what the Moscow metro stations (at least the first ones) were supposed to be. And if one thing was realized in communist times, this was it. Just imagine a grey, cold depressing day - and you get out of your metro car into a palace built right for you! Not that the metro itself could not use some improvements (just see what Prague made out of a similar network), but what concerns the stations: every big city in the world should take an example.;5;August 11, 2012
Never thought Metros could be works of art !;The Metros are WOW. Just need to buy one ticket and keep going up and down as long as you dont come out. Every station is a work of art. Ok not every station but at least eight of them. Don't get tempted to get into the next metro as you are gaping at the domes. There seem to be trains every minute and definitely nobody can complain on regularity in this russian capital.I suggest you take at least 2-3 hours to enjoy the sights and the experience of the place. Be sure to take a guide, nobody understands english. Worse,none of the stations have directions or names written in English.But let this not deter you from visiting this beautiful work of art. A must for a complete Moscow experience.;5;August 11, 2012
Impossible for foreigners;No English even in Red Square station. Impossible to navigate. Luckily a nice local that spoke English helped us out. Trains are dirty and old. Come on Russia, invest some of that gas revenue in at least some English signs. A World class city - I don't think so yet.;1;August 11, 2012
Don't miss this.;I was a little surprised to hear that part of the tour would include a ride on the Moscow subway however pleasently surprised with its efficiency. Luckily we had a Russina guide so I can not speak as to the ease of getting get around although it didnt stop some of our group travellingindependently. The Stalin stations which have been decorated extensively with pictures and statues should be seen.;5;August 10, 2012
Tired and dated;It works well though if you take your time you can work out the system but its a bit confusing at times,A spanish guy helped us out when we got a bit lost.;4;August 10, 2012
Stressful;Very nicely decorated metro, but if you dont speak or read Russian it can be a really stressful affair.;2;August 9, 2012
Nice stations, but not easy to get ahead if you don't speak Russian..;The stations are indeed nice, not modern, but there are nice paintings and it's clean. The lines are not complicated, so you can easily figure out which one to take. If you can read cyrillic letters.. If not, then you can be in deep trouble, as you can ask no one for help. People don't speak english (or don't want to). Cashiers neither.;2;August 9, 2012
Moscow stations;Ride a train and see the stations. make sure you count the stations to ensure you get off at the right one. No english signs.;4;August 8, 2012
A Few Tips from the Local;A lot can be said about the Moscow Metro, so I'd like to share some quick and easy tips for travellers, if they're unfamiliar with it.1) It's highly preferable to use metro with a guide or your Russian-speaking friend, I mean it. I know, that experienced travellers may think they'd make it, however, there's a chance they wouldn't - without some trouble. All the announcements inside trains and information boards are in Russian, so it's very easy to lose your way. If you don't have a guide or a local friend, try learn to read Cyrillic before you go to Moscow.2) Beware of pick-pockets at all times. Though the metro is safe in comparison even with some of its analogues in Europe, it's better not to be careless.3) Try to plan your trip so it will include as little changes of a line, as possible, so you'd safe your time and nerves (this is for the times when you're just commuting, not sight-seeing).4) If you missed your station, in 99% of the cases, all you have to do is cross the platform and take the next train, that goes in reverse direction. It is a bit different, if you have found yourself on one of these 2 stations: Kitay-Gorod or Tretyakovskaya. From there, it is usually necessary to use stairs in the middle or at the back of the platform to get to another platform, and take a train there - you'd probable need assistance, see p.1.5) Keep in mind, that the interval between the trains is longer than usual early in the morning (6-7 a.m.), late in the evening (after 10 .m.) and on week-ends.;4;August 7, 2012
Very nice metro;Paitings are beatiful. Easy to follow the lines, cheep, but hard to understand the written russian language;5;August 7, 2012
A journey through the history;Every station differs from another. And each have history behind it. All in the very depth of the ground... It's a must see Moscow attraction!;4;August 7, 2012
Not easy for those who don't speak or read Russian;Despite what the guide books tell you, navigating the wonderful Metro system is difficult for those who don't read Russian.  All the signs are in the cryllic alphabet, not a single one also in the western alphabet, as the street signs are.  The various lines are both numbered and color coded but, do ou think they would do the signs in the appropriate colors?  No, that would be too helpful.  And the numbers for each line are so small as to be difficult to pick out.  Our first trip should have taken 11 minutes according to the Metro website, which even showed the best route from our starting point to destination.  Problem was, it sent us through a massive station where 4 different lines pass through.  Trying to find your way through the various platforms and levels with no real aid is nigh on to impossible.  Fortunately, the Russians, with their perpetal dour look on their face, are more than willing to stop and help, even if they speak no English.  When we got to our destination, at the Kremlin, we couldn't find an exit, first of all, then when we did we came out on the wrong side of a busy six lane street.  And trust me, that is not the sort of street you want to try to cross.  Obviously there must be a pedestrian tunnel somewhere, but where?  We finally realized we had to go back into the subway and come out a different exit on the other side of the street.  First time we came out, we were still on the wrong side of the street, just in a different place.  We finally found the right exit by trial and error.  Elapsed time for our 11 minute trip?  Almost 50 minutes.  Yes, you will learn the system if you use it ofen enough but, for those who won't be there long enough, I recommend taking a cab (rates are negotiable - read the tourist literature about this) to get around.;2;August 6, 2012
Dont use a tour guide;There are many tours for showing you the moscow metro which is a masterpiece , but I recommend you to ignore them .Just get a metro map , buy one ticket and enter the Metro . get of the train in every Station , Take photos and come back to the next train for the next station .Trains are coming fast and you dont have to wait much in every station .It is a must see in Moscow;5;August 6, 2012
8th wonder!;Moscow metro is just amazing place. Many beautiful stations and highly efficient system. You hardly ever have to wait for a train longer than 2,5 minutes, even outside rush hour. Very clean. Signs are only in cyrillic, but with little effort even first time visitors will find the right train. Must see for everyone  visiting Moscow!;5;August 6, 2012
Moscow Metro;Marble and chandeliers everywhere - beautiful! They have improved the announcement system since I last used the Metro, and the maps make it very easy to find your way around. Cheapest and fastest way to get around Moscow by far.;5;August 5, 2012
Experience of a lifetime;The Moscow Metro is an experience that will stay with you for a long time.As we were in a guided tour,this was a treat for us as our tour guide took us on a tour of few stations that showed us how wonderful it was.It was certainly very exciting experience for everyone.;5;August 4, 2012
Inspiring;The metro stations are an attraction in themselves. Deep underground are some lovely mosaics, statues & works of art in their own right. The trains aren't bad either.;5;August 3, 2012
A must see!;A definite stop on your first visit to Moscow.  I recommend joining a tour or hiring a guide so that you can see the best stops (and not get lost);5;August 3, 2012
Easy to use;Now that signs are up in English as well as Cyrillic the Moscow metro is the way to move quickly around Moscow. The fare of 2 roubles takes you anywhere on the line. Carriages are old but clean and tidy. Some of the stations are like palaces. Recommended!Very busy at rush hour;5;August 3, 2012
Impressive ornammentation.;We've visited 4 stations and was impressive indeed. In addition to the ornamentations, like in a museum, we were impressed by the civilized way of the transport and of the population.;5;August 2, 2012
Very little of fresh air and humidity is enormous.;Very little of fresh air and humidity is enormous. Let alone dirtiness. Lots of travelers almost any given time. And during rush hour. Uff! God forbid!Nothing to be excited about Moscow subway except convenience for travelling – fast and without any traffic complications.;2;August 1, 2012
I like marmor flooring, real empire style;Everybody can say that Moscow Metro is like a Palace. You will find so many realy expensive art works in walls, ceilings, mosaic floors. Not even museums can compete...;4;August 1, 2012
Effective;MOCKBA METRO is fast and effective. They go every 1,5 minutes. They are usually very full. Useful skill in this metro is the capability of reading cyrillic letters.;4;August 1, 2012
The Jewel of Moscow;Nothing beats the Moscow Rapid Transit System (Metro) for travel around the city, and the stations have to be seen too!Trains are every 90 seconds in peak hour, and average around 2-3 minutes during the day, out to about 5 or 6 minutes just before closing time. The last trains leave the center of the city at 01:00 and everything resumes again at 05:00. A few tipsGet yourself a multi-trip ticket from the 'Kassa' (Cashier). Just hold up your ten fingers and she will get the idea, or try saying 'desit' (ten) or 'dvasit' (20). If you are not up for that there are now new automatic machines in each station that will sell you a one trip ticket and are much faster than queuing up (make sure you have some 10 Ruble coins or some small notes). Yes all the signage once you are inside is in Cyrillic, but all the maps posted in the train have the station names in Russian and Cyrillic, as do the ones in the station (before you get on the platform). There are also some great Apps for your phone that can help you. If you have an iPhone, get yourself the App called 'Metropolitan'. It not only comes with a map, but can also plan your route for you and even tells you when the best place to stand on the platform is to get to your next exit or change of train. You can also listen for the name of the station when on the train. As the train arrives you will hear the name of the station, and the as it departs you will hear the name of the next station. If the voice is female, then the train is heading away from the city center. If the voice it male, then you are heading into the center of Moscow (on the circle line the male voice is for clockwise travel). Some of my favorite stationsMayakovskayaArbatskayaPloshchad RevolyutsiiKievskaya;5;July 30, 2012
Cheap, efficient and challenging;Hmmmm, the Moscow Metro.  Cheap: 28 RUB per each single journey made for excellent value for money.Efficient:  I never waited for than 3 mins for a train to arrive, most arrived 1-2 mins after the previous departure.Challenging: The majority of signs in stations and on trains are in Cyrillic - there are "subtitles" in a latin alphabet on most of the maps - but they're sometimes difficult to find.My tips.1. Purchase your tickets at the 1 or 2 journey ticket machines - the bottom button switches language between Russian and English.2. Be aware that there can be a significant distance between platforms in some of the major intersection stations.3. Have fun and don't worry about getting lost!;4;July 29, 2012
i thought i would be robbed..instead i got the shock of my life;and you will to,  it is a work of art like not other including london Tube, or NYC crappy subways.  Each station is filled with a different style...clean, not trash and very beautifyl.  A must on your trip.;5;July 29, 2012
Effective transit system, all in Russian;Loved using the trains, definitely an adventure if you cannot read or speak Russian.  It's easy enough to get around as long as you can match the symbols on the map to those on the train destinations so you get on the right train.  Worth spending some time to figure it out because it was inexpensive and we never used a cab.The artwork in the stations are very interesting as well.  Some strange stories wee being told through the artwork.  Worth a to on the train.;5;July 29, 2012
You have to do it;If in Moscow, you have to experience the Moscow Metro. Initially to a westerner, it is not easy. It is great if you have an English speaking guide to take you on 1st time. You will need a metro map - obtainable at all good tourist outlets and hotels and to develop a  scheme for understanding. Remember the Russian alphabet is not the same as the Latin (ABCDE etc) alphabet. This makes recognition challenging. You can count the stations, but I developed a technique of memorizing the 1st 4 letters of the station I needed - and I still got it slightly wrong when I found I had got onto the 'grey line' instead of the green line.Don't even bother asking the many 'officials' for help ! Look for a 20-25 yr old who is not plugged into their i-phone, and not in a tearing hurry and ask them. They are usually keen to practice their English and very obliging.You just have to allow much longer to get anywhere, not because of the trains or queues, but to make mistakes, and exit the Metro and retry - or walk the extra few blocks because you came out the wrong exit.It is challenging but do-able, and well worth the effort to see the artworks on so many stations. Again a guide the 1st time helps find the right stations etc. (See my entry re Viktoria Smirnova);4;July 29, 2012
Convenient and fast;At first disorientating but I can imagine that with practice this metro would be one of the best in the world. Trains so often you never wait for long and just makes the city so easy to navigate. The only way to get around Moscow!;5;July 28, 2012
Noisy but fast;I assume built in 80's. Brown line cricles the center of Moscow very deep down in Earth:) I would say it is really noisy, old and fast but trains often on time and do not need to wait. On the entrance of the stations there are kiosks and counters. round trip ticket is 56 rubles, no recharging, once used, throw the ticket away, get a new one. Kiosk provides the change in coins. The other lines bring people to the center and distribute from there. If interested, there is an IPhone and Android application, where you can see the lines, timings etc.;4;July 27, 2012
Spectacular but very confusing Language;The staions are great (most some are plain) but be careful there is nothing in any language but Russian and it is very difficult to get it right as the letters are so different you cannot get the phonetics working. Safe and te people simply cannot talk as most do not know english;4;July 27, 2012
Magnificent;Yes, it's dirty, full of Mafia controlled beggars and noisy, but realistically there is no faster way of getting from A to B in Moscow (road traffic is a nightmare). At rush hours there is literally one train per minute and the carriages are much more spacious than the claustrophobic tubes in London; they don't smell as bad either!Tickets are well priced (one of the few things in Moscow to offer excellent value for money) and once you're through the barrier, you're in- no need to worry about zones or ticket inspections.;4;July 27, 2012
Give it a go;I found navogating round the metro quite easy despite there being zero roman script. Get a decent colour map of the metro work on recognising the first few characters of the stations you want and know which terminal you need to be heading for. Not any harder than London underground.;5;July 26, 2012
stations are beautiful, but signage is often lacking;The Moscow metro (subway) is very clean and efficient. Many of the stations are literally works of art. However, if you don't already know your way around, be prepared to be confused. First, you have to figure out the cyrillic alphabet: there are no English signs, and the only way to tell trains apart is by destinations written in Russian; there are no "north" or "south" signs, and no color coding on the trains themselves. That is probably reasonable to expect; after all, it is Russia! But in addition, many of the signs to trains are missing. For example, at one station that had three train lines, there was no sign to how to get to the next train line; you just had to know, or ask, where it was (in some places there are signs to other trains, but you can't rely on that). Also, many times you can't tell the difference between an exit to another train line and an exit from the system; if you exit the latter; you have to buy another ticket. Overall, though, if you can figure it out, it is a cheap and easy way to get around.;4;July 26, 2012
best metro in world;since the freaking bolsheviks tore down all the real temples, the Moscow Metro was a sort of temple of the prolitariate  - there are stations with mosaics that copy ancient Constantinople churches, statues, marble, and all the sort of this you expect in museam or a house of worship, and not a mass transit system!and the mass transit system it self is superb!;5;July 26, 2012
One of the most beautiful in the world but hard to handle;The metro is a real museum but if you're visiting Moscow in summer the metro-tour can become a real torture. Thereis almost no airconditioning and ventilation is super poor. Please, avoid rush hours which are 8-10 am and 8-20 pm;3;July 25, 2012
like museum.;Each station ( at least in the central area) has tremendous paintings and carvings inside. It's like a museum. Not only station but also the trains are quite historical, too! But there're many lines so quite convenient. It's worth to take it.;5;July 25, 2012
Only Russian signs;If you do not speak the language, be sure to bring a guide along. While it is an adventure not to be missed, it would be easy to get lost in the maze of trains!;4;July 25, 2012
an amazing view under the ground;it was very nice view down there. different interior in every station, different style, different color but all of them so beautiful feel like we are in the palace room or something.Bravo for Russian elder who have this idea. This is one of my favorite place to visit when i come to Moscow, and definitely is a must to see one. well recommended. thumbs up :);5;July 25, 2012
Spectacular;The art work is amazing.  I could hardly stop snapping photos. Would recommend seeing this on early Sunday morning when they are few people in the halls.;5;July 24, 2012
Really worth a visit;Moscow metro is just amazing - different stations, pictures, marble and the size - Moscow underground is really big! The ticket is quite cheap and it is the most fast and effective way to travel in Moscow as overground transport can be stuck in a traffic any time of the day and night. The other good thing about Moscow underground is that the lines are open from very early to very late and there is not a chance one or the other line is closed for a day so you can always be sure you will get where you want.The only nasty thing aout Moscow underground - travelling in a rush hour. It can be really an unpleasant experience so try to avoid getting in there from 8 to 9.30 am and 6 to 7pm. I really advice to visit the Ploshad Revolucii (Revolution square) station - the station is full of bronze figures - solgers, girl with thedo, a chicken etc. There is a nice tradition to touch the statues for luck - you will see people touch the shiny parts of the statues!;5;July 23, 2012
A must see!!;You can't miss Moscow metro while being there. every thing there is unique. There are different types of trains and every station has its own style, every station is a museum in itself. It takes you almost everywhere in no time.The Ticket costs 28 rubles for one ride. you can have one ticket for many rides as you just pass a card on a yellow button and keep the ticket with you. If you are more than one person you can share the same ticket, by using it then passing it to the next person, it is normal. For using the metro you should read its map to know which line you do need and which exits you have to take. If you don't speak Russian then you should have a map written in Russian and English. There is a map in every station but written in Russian only, you can also download some good Moscow metro maps for your android. The exit signs are written also in Russian only so you'd better know the name of the street you need in Russian to be able to get the right exit since some stations have many many exits.There are also numerous metro lines there, so it is better to know the name of the line in English and Russian and its color and number too since every line has a name, a color and a number. The colors in maps are always accurate but the colors in metro signs not very accurate so its better to depend on the name and number.The metro is open till 1:00 am.This is a list of the most beautiful metro stations that you can't miss:-Komsomolskaya (Russian: Комсомо́льская) - in the circle/brown line Koltsevaya Line (Russian: Кольцева́я ли́ния) - line number 5-Belorusskaya (Russian: Белору́сская) - same line as previous station.-Novoslobodskaya (Russian: Новослободская) - same line as previous station.-Kiyevskaya (Russian: Ки́евская) - same line as previous station.-Mayakovskaya (Russian: Маяковская) - in the green line Zamoskvoretskaya Line (Russian: Замоскворе́цкая ли́ния) line number 2.-Ploshchad Revolyutsii (Russian: Пло́щадь Револю́ции, meaning Revolution Square) - in the blue line Arbatsko–Pokrovskaya Line (Russian: Арба́тско-Покро́вская ли́ния) - line number 3.-Baumanskaya (Russian: Бауманская) - same line as previous station.-Trubnaya (Russian: Тру́бная) - Lyublinsko-Dmitrovskaya Line (Russian: Любли́нско-Дми́тровская ли́ния) (Line 10)-Sretensky Bulvar (Russian: Сре́тенский Бульва́р) - same line as previous one.You can visit all these stations using one ticket since you don't have to get out of the station.You can check the price list on this site: http://engl.mosmetro.ru/pages/page_0.php?id_page=8and don't forget reading the manual of how to use the metro on tripadvisor.com http://www.tripadvisor.com/Travel-g298484-c79491/Moscow:Russia:How.To.Use.The.Metro.html it is a must read before you travel.;5;July 22, 2012
Moscow Metro, a Museum in Itself;When in Moscow, you must make time to ride the Metro! It is filled with statues, paintings, frescos, mosaics and beautiful architecture. Although the names of the stations are only written in Russian, if you stop a young person (most of them know a little English), they are very happy to help. A map with stops written in Russian and English will help you communicate your needs. Just ride and stop for an incredible look at art pieces from some of the most famous artists of Russia. You will be amazed at the art work and how clean and safe this adventure will be.;5;July 21, 2012
Has to be visited when in Moscow;This place is full of history.the statues where you rub the nose of the dog are amazing.Other halls would rival anything  in Paris.One word of WARNING ..you have 15 seconds to get on and off the train..I got crushed as I got on ,bruised arms ..and they don't open if something is trapped in the closing doors.very dangerous .;4;July 21, 2012
Beautful metro station;The metro stations are beautifully decotorated and the metro is one of the best in the world.  Wait time is approx. 30 seconds between trains.  However, everything is written in russian.;5;July 21, 2012
Without a guide, you are going to need to be able to interpret cyrilic;As amazing as everyone says, particularly Mayakovskaya and Ploschad Revoluytsi. But it's really hard to get around on your own if you can't quickly read cyrilic. We did a LOT of panicking - help - where are we, the names seem wrong! TOP TIP - where lines interchange all the stations have different names on the different lines - that REALLY confused us to start with! So check the name on the line YOU are on, particularly where 3 lines cross. On the tube walls of the platform beyond the rails are possible other lines you can change onto if you get on this train. If in doubt, wait and work it out - no hurry, trains are constant. Good luck - it's worth it!;5;July 21, 2012
Beauty and Effeciency...Just hold on tight!;So glad I was with a native....It was very crowded and the escalator plunged at a dizzying angle but it was well worth the visit for both the quick transportation as well as the gorgeous architecture;5;July 20, 2012
Jump on and off;Wow, some of the stations are just magnificent, again my review is based on travelling with a guide. We spent 2 hours hopping in and off the different metro stations getting an explanation of what the basis of each of the themes were, the age and other historical facts, really interesting.;5;July 19, 2012
Toatally amazing;Not only do the trains run every 30 seconds or so, the stations are amazing.  We took two different lines and got off at every station to gawk and take photos.  Mosaics, statues, bas reliefs - one station was more beautiful than the next.  The cars are old and aren't air conditioned, but spotless.  Well worth an hour or two underground.;5;July 19, 2012
Trains every two minutes, great coverage, avoid rush hour;This is the way to get around. We got a hotel somewhere between downtown Moscow and Belarus, but it was a few meters from a metro line, so we were only half an hour from the city center. That meant we saved a bundle on our room and rode the Metro every day. Yes, it's noisy, but that's a subway for you. Quit whining. AVOID RUSH HOURS. Why, do you ask? Just use the Metro between the hours of 4 and 7, any day. Then you'll see why. But plan wisely and use that Metro for all it's worth. Tickets cost about a dollar for one direction with unlimited transfers. That means I spend about $4 per day on Metro and save about $375 per day on not having a downtown hotel room. Do the math, and travel smart!;4;July 19, 2012
!!! WOW !!!;Wow, wow, wow, and more wow!  Super efficient, super quick, and very beautiful.  Yes, it gets crowded during rush hour, but it's such a great to travel :);5;July 19, 2012
Fantastic;Safe,clean and awesome. A little hard to understand Russian words on the stations but had great guide.;5;July 18, 2012
Impressive Interiours;There is no other underground metro system in the world as glamourous as this! It is cheap to ride and after getting to grips with the Russian alphabet and charaters, its very easy to get around.;5;July 17, 2012
you can do it!;Using the Metro is not quite as daunting as you might expect. Be sure to get a metro map and then match your stop to the attractions in the area you are planning to see. I suggest counting the stops and matching the letters. The metro is similar to the NYC subway system, so it's reasonable to navigate. The metro is a quick, easy way to travel around Moscow since the traffic there is awful. Additionally, you may enjoy the experience. Many of the stations are really beautiful, and they are clean and well kept.;4;July 15, 2012
Who knew public transport could be an attraction?;Love how each station is different and has a cultural theme. Stopped at a few stations just to see what was on the ceiling/walls... first time in all of my global travels that I've done that! Worth the time to just cruise around and stop off for a look!;4;July 15, 2012
Moscow Metro;Amazing! The Moscow Metro underground stations each unique. Each one is a museum or rather an art gallery by itself. Like for example, the Kiev station ( capital of Ukrain ) depicts the life of the Ukranian people. If you have not seen at least five, ( try and see as many as you can ), metro stations, you have not visited Moscow.;5;July 14, 2012
Gorgeous - an underground rail system that's a desitnation in its own right!;When's the last time you wanted to photograph a Metro station, just so you could show people and say "THAT is a METRO STATION! No, really!!"  You will :-);5;July 13, 2012
Loved it!;Very easy to understand for someone who doesn't know russian, found it very easy to get around moscow!;5;July 13, 2012
Interesting Stations;While you are traveling through Moscow take the time to get acquainted with the Metro stations.  They range from dank run down platforms to museum quality sculpture laden stations.  Used to inspire patriotism, move people around the city, and use as underground bunkers for  WWIII. Each station as its own character.   Don't forget to look up or you'll miss some interesting murals.  The stations themselves are efficient and you can buy cards round-trip for only 57 rubles.   The lines of the metro are marked in color.  Most of the stations have at least one sign that is in Roman lettering.   Some don't.   Know your destination in Cyrillic to prevent confusion.   There are Iphone apps you can use.  People watch up and down the escalators to see the current fashion and mood of the people.;4;July 13, 2012
Metor tour;Went on an organised tour of the Metro - definitely not to be missed, the stations are amazing and absolutely unique;5;July 13, 2012
Well worth a look;Art Deco heaven! and cheap at the price. A good outing for a rainy day, or to hide from the summer heat.;5;July 13, 2012
Museums, transportation, art galleries, architecture and Soviet history - in one inexpensive package!;I am flabbergasted at the negative reviewers complaining that signs aren't in English. They aren't in French, German or Arabic, either - so what? It's called TRAVEL, folks - you go someplace different to take in the differences. Otherwise, might as well stay home. There are printable Internet  maps that have stations and lines in English and Russian, as well as at least 3 iPhone apps. Plus, Cyrillic is phonetic - one can learn how to pronounce letters and sound out words in an afternoon before departing for Russia. It's certainly easier and far more fun than sitting in Starbucks or McDonalds while complaining "I don't recognize the letters, they don't like tourists, I'm helpless."Not experiencing the Metro in Moscow = not experiencing Moscow.;5;July 12, 2012
Not to be missed!;The Moscow Metro should not be missed. This is the best value 28 Rubles you could spend in Moscow! The Moscow Metro is truly amazing; the best stations are found on the Circle Line and each has a different theme. There are organised trips to see the Metro at night, but this expense is not necessary. We were advised that there will be more pick-pockets around in the evening, so we chose our visit early evening when it was much quieter. A highly recommended experience!;5;July 12, 2012
Beautiful!;Best and most beautiful metro in the world!!!  Nothing compares!!! :);5;July 12, 2012
Beautiful Metro - Avoid at Peak Times;WOW. Rush hour on the metro is not for anyone with issues being packed like a sardine.;4;July 11, 2012
wow, some great station architecture/decoration;very ornate and very reliable service. customer service at the ticket counters is pretty dire.;5;July 11, 2012
Unbelievable!;I can't believe i was actually in various subway stations, the stained glass, mosaics, and sculptured felt more like a museum than a metro stop.  Its a shame they're taking the political art down because they don't want any propoganda influence.  See it while you can!  Just be careful of pickpockets looking for tourists!;5;July 11, 2012
Beautiful, but...;TOO CROWDED!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!This is the real hell in summer cause too hot and in winter cause putrescent smell of  cardboard dwellers :(;3;July 11, 2012
Not For The Faint of Heart;The pros are that it is an excellent system and you can travel anywhere in the Moscow area relatively cheap.  The cons are that it is not that English-friendly, and while it is well organized, it is big and complicated.  Give yourself extra time, because sometimes there are long lateral walkways between stations and super-long escalators up and down and between levels when transferring.  The stations are clean, and other than the occasional pick-pocket or terrorist bombing they are relatively safe - I feel safer in the Moscow subway than in the New York subway.  If you dont speak any Russian - take a phrasebook.;4;July 11, 2012
A metro like no other;Don't you dare to go alone if you don't speak Russian. We were with a guide who took us to see stations that are artistic, clean, museum like. Hurry up to get in the train, they close the doors so quickly that it can be dangerous. But visit, because is nothing like other metro stations you may have visited.;5;July 10, 2012
Efficient!;Learn the Cyillic letters, get a card and start travelling. Try to work out what exit to use, that will save you a lot of trouble because most of the time you can´t cross the streets, you have to use the underground passages. Most passengers will stop and help you find your way even in rush hours.;5;July 10, 2012
Moscow metro stations;One of the reasons, beside The Red Square, for me getting to Moscow were its metro stations, which my highschool Russian language teacher was talking about with so much warmth and passion, like everything else when it came to Russia.I got there and my first day was mostly reserved for seeing one of the big Moscow's attractions, so deep that served as anti-bomb shelter in the WWII, old enough to be among the oldest in Europe, if not the oldest-havent made that research. Practical things: - get a metro lines map, that is a must, practice your russian-at least the slavonic alfabet, cause otherwise you won't get along. All stations names are in Russian, the anouncements-as well as Everything else-even guides at the major museums are only Russian spoken. -everybody is circulating on the right side -as everywhere in the major civilized cities- including on the walking stairs, at the end of every one of these there is somebody whos watching the stairs - to be onest, at first i found it at least odd, but then i got accustomed- metro its very clean-even if a bit dustfull in some of the oldest stations, but you won't see anything on the floor, in spite of the fact that there R NO BINS;)) people r cleanin constantly as I've seen, but you wont see anyone throwing things on the floor either:)- most are reading on tablets-not so many headphones as in NYC, younger people cease their seats to older ones, or men to women, they are not so commercially and senseless smiling as westerns are, THEY DON'T speak a Word in English, but if u try some Russian they are more than willing to help.Beeing a mix of communist kitch with good taste, old and new or practical in the same time, it's im possible that the metro stations won't amaze you, even if its only for the fact that the russians DON'T DENY their history. You will see, more pregnant in Moscow than in St. Petersburg, both communist and tsarist symbols:), which can b hilarious and confusing in the same time - for example, the State Duma, has up the well known communist star, the hammer and the sickle, and down, over the name, the tsarist 2-headed vulture :)Overall, it took me more than 1/2 day to see all i wanted, and my top picks are:Maiakovskaya, Ploschad Revolutzii, Beloruskaia, Kievskaia, but there are plenty intersting ones to see.Enjoy your trip in a past world that clings to the present and lives through its people, that dont let it die.;4;July 10, 2012
imperial subway;While it may be hard to travel through it because of the cyrillic, it is a must, some stations have amazing designs and beautiful ceilings.;5;July 9, 2012
Unlike any other subway;WOW!! What a way to spend $1 for a full day of fun. These subway stations are the most grand of any subway stations I have been in and I have seen stations from NYC to London to Rome to Boston. They are clean, safe and beautiful. Each station is unique from the next and on the route that we went each one was just that much more grand. The mosaic tile work is unbelieveable, the stained glass is beautiful and the number of people that use the metro system each day was just amazing.;5;July 9, 2012
from the best metro in the world;wonderful design and its very deep they built it before to safe people from the war;4;July 9, 2012
RAPID TRANSFER TO ANY MOSCOW CORNER;£5 for 10 journeys is also very cheap!!! Take a camera with you. Some stations are state of the art!;5;July 8, 2012
5/5 but 1/5 for ease of use!;A museum in its own right and well worth a visit. Frequency of trains is truely clockwork. The Moscow metro's degree of difficulty on the other hand gets 8/10 for non Russian speakers, illiterates, it's a 9.5 as the colour coding is often not consistently used. Handy hint: a female voice on the train is used for journeys departing the city or counter clockwise on the circle line, a male for the rest.  But don't fear, Russians too get a little lost on the system too. Oh, and don't look for the station names on the platform, their conviently hidden on the wall behind the train, to add to the confusion. Make sure you coin the number of stops, unless you speak Russian.;5;July 8, 2012
I travel everyday to work and am still impressed;1) it works 2) the architecture in some of the stations is beautiful - especially mosaics and light fixtures.  You get a true sense of soviet history which has been largely stamped out up top.;5;July 8, 2012
Helpful hints;Moscow metro is safe, fast, cheap ( a ride costs  US$0.80 ) but it requires some knowledge in order not to get lost  at least in the first rides.Be advised that even when the lines interchange they have different names for the same station. In  NY  for every line that stops at Central Station, that station is called ...Central Station! Not in Moscow, where every line would have a different name for the asame stop. Another difficulty is that if you are in the train it is hard to know  what is the name of station the train is aproaching. In London, when the train stops at a station you can read the name of it from all windows, not in Moscow. You can listen the conductor announcing the station from the PA system, but this is not so easy if you are not acquainted with russian pronunciation. The new trains have a display with the name of the next station  but the old ones don´t. Even if they do, when the train is crowed it is difficult to see the panel. Better count before boarding how many stops you must ride before leaving the trainAlso consider that being very deep means long escalators and that means time. When planning a trip consider that changing trains as less as possible  even if it means longer rides, you will arrive early!;4;July 6, 2012
Fun!!;It's a blast to use the subway in Moscow.  You can get anywhere in just a few minutes and for only 28 rubles.  If you have never done a subway then learn somewhere else.  If you are a veteran subway user try it in Moscow especially the Red Line.;5;July 6, 2012
Fabulous metro stations;On our return trip to Moscow we wanted to visit more lovely metro stations, beginning with nearby Chekhovskaya with its attractive mosaics. We were particularly interested in seeing the more recently opened ones so we continued to Trubnaya with its lovely glass mosaics with many pictures of churches. We had read that many of these are without dome crosses and we confirmed that this is indeed the case. We moved on to the arrestingly dramatic Dostoyevskaya that we thought very effective. We continued to Mar’ina Roshcha where we loved the artwork on the track walls.Next on our list of must-sees was the spectacular Elektrozavodskaya. Standing at the end of the main concourse viewing the full extent of the more than 300 recessed lamps and decorations was breadth taking.Of course in the course of our travels around Moscow, we saw many more luxurious stations such as Mayakovskaya, Kievskaya, Arbatskaya, Ploshchad Revolyutsii and Novoslobodskaya. Metro travel is great value with a single ticket at 28 Rubles. We bought a 60 journey ticket that we shared for the week at a cost of 1245 R, each trip costing less than 21 Rubles.;5;July 6, 2012
Moscow Metro;I have been there lot of time and it is always a pleasure both for the efficiency and the beauty. One of the great place, I would say, in the World;4;July 6, 2012
Not to be missed;Fast, efficient and clearer than its counterparts in othe major cities. The stations on the Brown line are spectacular.;4;July 6, 2012
don't go on week days;if you want to see something here don't go there on week days as it is over crowded! To my view it is only recommendable to visit the stating on the ring line.;3;July 6, 2012
Great just to see the stations!;If you get on at one station and simply travel around, eg don't exit the station, then you can simply travel from one line to the next, seeing all the amazing underground stations, so ornate and beautiful, and end up at your start point. All for about $2. You don't need to do a tour for this, unless you want more information and detail about each station.;4;July 6, 2012
People's palace;We visited three stations of the Metro. They have been rightly called People's palaces. One station had 82 sculptures depicting different people in their areas of work from a farmer to an engineer, a student, a home maker. It was beautiful. One was of a dog whose nose had turned shiny as people automatically rubbed their hand on it while passing as it is considered to bring luck!!;5;July 5, 2012
adventurous!;I'm a person who love adventures, so if you are of the same boat, you'll enjoy traveling everywhere with Moscow metro too :);5;July 4, 2012
Functions well, and gets ou everywhere;Great system, but every is written in cyrillic. Hardly any english translations anywhere.;3;July 4, 2012
One of Moscow's highlights;A great experience, try to visit it when in Moscow;5;July 3, 2012
old but good;all people go with the metro.very interesting to meet local people. cheap and fast to cross the big city.;5;July 3, 2012
A tourist attraction in itself;I loved the fact that every station is different, and full of marble, art deco, statues, etc. You can spend a day touring these for less than a dollar! The trains are crowded, but they are very efficient and frequent. Be careful, The older cars will crush you if you dont make it in! And if you're afraid of heights, the escalators can be frightening.;5;July 2, 2012
Travel the Metro in Moscow;Just back from 13 days in Moscow & St Petersburg.  Two great and very different Cities.  Spent a few hours one day, on the Moscow Metro, which is brilliant. Such beautiful Metro Stations, needed more time to look, wonder & take photographs!  They are like Museums themselves. If in Moscow don't give up the opportunity to do this. Very efficient and inexpensive way to travel,  spend the time you will not regret it !;5;July 2, 2012
A model for the rest of the world;Not only is this the cheapest most frequent and most efficient metro I have travelled on anywhere in the world it is overwhelmingly the most beautiful. The stations will make you stop and stare-not the normal reaction for a metro station. Just make sure you know exactly where you are going;4;July 2, 2012
Clean, but don't be a rookie;The subway system is excellent and clean.  Police officers are patrolling and cleaners are dusting and moping.  If you don't read Russian and never conquered a subway system, don't start here.  It can be confusing, but once you get the hang of it, its the cheapest and fastest way to get around.;4;July 2, 2012
A bit confusing if you don't know Russian;Since most of the stations had no English, it is very difficult to get by though it is not impossible. It is good to have a Russian and English map so that even you need to ask direction, people know what you are talking about. After all you can still get by. No need to be afraid.;3;July 1, 2012
Very efficient;The trains run like clockwork.  Very fast and inexpensive way to travel.  Besides the service, check out every station you stop at; some are like a museum.;5;July 1, 2012
Fast, safe and reliable - beautiful stations;I liked the reliability and safety as well as art works inside stations. What I did not like was having to stand most of the time even non-peak hours.;5;July 1, 2012
easy to use if you know the Russian alphabet;trains run regularly. stations are easy to navigate IF you learn the Russian alphabet ahead of time, which isn't that hard to do.;4;June 30, 2012
unique experience!!;it was a rather scary experience going into the metro at first but one has to do this to experience the real Russian Moscow people and way of life. The metro stations where beautiful and the long escalators into the earth was a rather unique experience;5;June 29, 2012
A bit disappointing but certainly worth seeing;Having seen so many pictures and videos of Moscow metro stations I found them to be good and pretty but not quite what expected. Perhaps this happened because we were there on a busy working day, or maybe because the pictures/videos taht we had seen had been taken under studio-like circumstances.;4;June 29, 2012
Palace for the people;You will not be able to shut your mouth. Visit the ring line and the green one;5;June 29, 2012
be prepared for a fast ride;not only are the metro trains fast they are incredibly noisy too, so don't expect to have a conversation whilst riding or waiting! And the escalators are fats too - at least 1.5 times faster than those on the London underground; not suitable if you're disabled or infirm.;5;June 29, 2012
Awesome;The metro is a not-to-be missed experience.  I was afraid I couldn't find my way around, but once inside, just getting on and off at each station to observe the art and grandeur of the place is easy.  It is a special museum of Russian history.;5;June 29, 2012
A marvel of transportation;Highly efficient! Each and every station is a full size work of art in its own right. Well worth spending at least a day going from station to station and admiring the real beauty of the art works. All of it for the cost of a metro ticket!;5;June 28, 2012
Another must!!!;thrilling experience. Every station inside the Ring Line has its own unique design so take your time and enjoy... Definitely avoid rush hours, though. Most Moscovites buy cars as soon as they earn enough money so rush hours is definitely not the best time...;5;June 28, 2012
Fantastic - well worth spending a morning or afternoon on the subway!;Avoid morning and evening rush hour.  We went about 2pm and had no trouble with crowds.  No need for a guide if you are comfortable reading the Cyrillic letters and following the signs.  Not as well marked as many subways, but if you end up going the wrong direction just get off, enjoy the beautiful station, and head back another way.  We made about 6 stops and loved them all!  Enjoy the low cost entertainment.;5;June 27, 2012
Effective, interesting and beyond all reliable;This is probably the best metro i have been on, it is punctual, the trains come past every 90 seconds, it is cheap +- 40 Rubels for a single trip. The stations are just amazing. Europe can learn something about the effectiveness of the Russian underground system.;4;June 27, 2012
Uncle Joe Stalin's "Peoples' Palaces.";There are over 180 stations, and I'm sure that not ALL are as splendid as the 12 on the central, circle (brown) line. However every single one of these is worth visiting and photographing. The artwork is incredible for a subway station.;5;June 27, 2012
Magnicient Art and Efficient Travel;This famous subway deserves all the praise heaped on it for the magnificent art coupled with efficiency.;5;June 26, 2012
Fine transport with beautiful design;This is really the only true rapid transport system in Moscow. If you want reach any place in the city fast you'll need it. And, of course, there is a lot station with old design where is a lot to see.;5;June 25, 2012
Don't be afraid. Hop on.;Cheap, fast, reliable, and nobody will rob you or otherwise mess with you. The only tough part is making it through the turnstiles in one piece.;5;June 25, 2012
Best way to get around Moscow;the Moscow metro is extraordinarily efficient and cheap. Just need to count the number of stops to your destination before embarking, and keep a metro map handy. We used several 5 trip passes, available from all stations. The colour system works & despite the lack of English signage, the station names become easily recognisable; keep an eye out for the end destination on the signs if you lose track of where you are. The soviet era decor is fantastic.;5;June 25, 2012
Subway-Mixed;Some of the stops are amazing, for example the beautiful mosaics atNovoslobodskaya-so people should see it.  But it can be hard to navigate because most of the time if three lines meet, each line has a separate name and it can be confusing figuring out where to change.  The subways do come often but the trains themselves are noisy and not particularly comfortable.  And if you can't read the Cyrillic alphabet could be very confusing.But some of the stations are stunning.  The guidebooks will tell you the names of the most well-known.  I also liked Kovonuketskaya with streetlights;4;June 24, 2012
Hopping on and off the metro;Loved seeing a few of the stops - from older ones to the newer and more modern ones.  You have got to hop on quickly.  Went to the deepest metro station and took an escalator where we could not see the bottom from the top and as we descended, the people ascending looked as though they were at an angle.  No garbage cans anywhere: you take you trash with you.  Only one place with graffiti.  Definitely worth a look.;4;June 24, 2012
My Favorite Part of Moscow;"A Palace for the people" The best way to learn about the metro and see things that most Moscovites don't even see/notice because their always running around in a hurry and simply don't look up to see the great tile mosaics above them! This was hands down my favorite part of Moscow, and it was great to learn about the History with Stalin and how the stations changed over time with the different political leaders. A must see.;5;June 24, 2012
Amazing tour of Moscow metro!;I went on the Metro tour the same day I did the free Moscow walking tour. Please go on this tour its really worth it. I wouldnot recommend you just go and cruise around the metro yourself to look at the architecture. Moscow metro is massive and you wont find all the sights yourself. It can be very crowded and you really need a guide to show you where to go. You stop at some many different stations and you dont need to worry about getting tickets as that all included in the price of the tour. Airat our guide was fantastic, its easy to get lost on the metro so make sure you stay close to your guide at all times! Airat told us so much about the metro and navigated us through easily. We also had a camera crew following us the day I went which was fun, I understand this will be on TV soon. A fantastic day out. I also did the Kremin tour the same day.;5;June 24, 2012
Moscow metro;Really clean and awesome service.  Trains are very frequent and you can buy at the automated machine in several languages.  Very easy to figure out even in russian language with a tourist map.  Very busy during the week  at rush hours;5;June 23, 2012
Moscow Free Walking Tours Great!;Do the Metro tour with Moscow Free Walking Tours. You have to pay 24 Euro, but some walks are free. Air at was great and we loved many of the architecturally intricate designs. Majakovskaja was our choice!;5;June 23, 2012
Great way to get around;Familiarise yourself with a map and if you need reading glasses, print off an enlarged map before you travel. Count stations as the station names are hard to understand and match up on the map. Don't expect help from the staff and do expect security guards and scanning devices everywhere, but nothing to fear and great way to get around.;4;June 21, 2012
Efficient and gets you most places you want to get to;It is very efficient and cheap way to travel around Moscow. The only drawback is that all signs are in Russian. But you can download a bilingual metro map from the internet.I found Russian people very friendly when I asked them for directions, and were willing to walk with me to get me to the right direction.;4;June 21, 2012
Only in Moscow;Riding the Moscwo metro was at the top of our list of things to do while visiting this fasinating city.  We were not disappointed!  It was not an easy to find our way around and the directions that I had written down ahead of time did not help.  However, people were so helpful and who point & get us back on track.  For such a huge city I was surprise to come across so many nice people.  These metro stations are awesome, so beautiful.  Am so glad that we allowed time to explore the AMAZING MOSCOW METRO.;5;June 18, 2012
Why can't the tube work so well?;Trains run every few mins (longest wait 3 mins), and it goes everywhere. It is easy to use, although not if you have mobility problems, and very fast. Only one caution for the tourist - you have to be able to read Cyrillic, I don't think I saw any Roman script.;5;June 18, 2012
Very conveient;Stunning architecture, easy to get around once you are able to recognise the names of the stations on the maps.  Just takes a little getting used to, but trains run every minute or so so if you go wrong, no problem on returning as trains are so frequent.;4;June 18, 2012
Brilliant;Effecient, fast and plenty of them which dont break down as the london tube does.Great way to travel and see the historic, yet beaytiful stations at the same time.;5;June 17, 2012
Exelente!;The best way of travelling in the summer city. The price is  cheep, many trains,so not long time for waiting. The red of ways in the center is perfect.;5;June 17, 2012
Got to go on this Metro.;Everything said about the Moscow Metro is true. Some wonderful architecture. And, the trains run on time and rattle along at an enormous pace. The only downside is the noise.;5;June 16, 2012
Getting around in Moscow;Learn the metro even though it is not tourist friendly since all the signs are in Russian but it is the cheapest and most efficient way of getting from point A to B as traffic is a mess.;5;June 16, 2012
Spectacular metro, but be careful;The Moscow Metro station network is indeed spectacular and a must-see for any visit to Moscow.  The architecture, the lighting and the general ambience is simply stunning – at any time of the day or night!  The Metro is also a very efficient way to move around the city with trains seemingly coming and going every minute or so.I visited the following stations as part of an organised tour: Mayakovskaya, Pushkinskaya, Chekhovskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Mendeleyevskaya, Tsvetnoy Bulvar, Taganskaya, and Komsomolskaya (considered by many to be the most spectacular).  I chose the tour as my time was limited and I wanted to maximise my opportunities.  If you have plenty of time and confidence in negotiating the cryllic station signs without any English assistance, then I’d recommend purchasing a ticket and then just wander around the system.Some words of advice: pickpockets abound in the subway (metro) stations and on the trains.  While I was taking photos and just moving around, I was constantly being buffeted and having my locked backpack fiddled with.  If you are taking photos and have an expensive-looking camera, expect to be targeted and take precautions.  Make sure you have all your valuables secure inside your clothing and your camera bags, backpacks, handbags, etc locked.  Also have a companion watch your back while you are taking your photos, especially during rush hour.  Learn to spot the pickpockets and eyeball them – they don’t like it.  They’re the guys (mostly guys) hanging around giving you sideways glances or stalking you as you wander around the station.  They are often on a mobile phone talking to an accomplice as they size up your potential as a target.  The success of their handiwork can be usually seen in the front of the Metro stations where they offload their ill-gotten gains to a network of receivers.  The whole process appears to be tolerated by the local authorities. If I return to Moscow, I’ll certainly spend more time underground on the Metro.;5;June 15, 2012
beautiful;Clean and busy. It is hard to believe that a metro could be a tourist attraction but it is.;4;June 15, 2012
Everything London Underground isn't!;The Moscow Metro is efficient, it runs reliably and the trains are clean.  The stations are at worst tidy, and in some cases are really beautiful buildings in their own right.  And they do this for a one-way trip of around 60p.  London Underground - Learn.  Quickly.;5;June 14, 2012
Fast Efiicient and interesting;fast efficient and interesting if not a little confusing to get around;4;June 13, 2012
Ok to see;Visited couples stations, mainly the recommend one. Nice decoration with huge sculptures and stained glass which can find in most palaces and museum around the city.;3;June 13, 2012
Deep under the ground!;Interesting, especially the stations in the Garden loop, I mean the old ones - Stalin's era. Deep under the ground, former bomb shelters for the Moscovites, get the feeling of beeing deep under the ground. The Metro itself is greatly overcrouded, but still beautiful.;4;June 12, 2012
Put's London Underground to Shame;Holy Cow.  These Metros were very elaborate.  They had chandeliers, mosaics, statues and so many other things.  They were beyond what you would normally see in a subway system.  Just look up the best before you go and then you can do them on your own or with a tour.;5;June 11, 2012
Easy to Use;Get yourself a Cyrillic / Roman Map and you can easily navigate the cheap and fast metro system. It is the only way to move round the congested Moscow roads;5;June 10, 2012
moscow subways systems;Great systems, pretty cool stations in the center of Moscow. Some are super deep and everyone on the escalator looks funny because they are tilted back because of the angle of the step as on the escalator to minimize tumbling down them.;5;June 10, 2012
Wow;The most fun you can have on a wet Moscow afternoon. An absolute bargain. The stations were stunning in their design and appearance and you got a real sense of the history of Moscow through your travels. And all for a small fee. All around you normal 'tube life' went on - the usual hustle and bustle - and yet you were in a bubble, absorbed in the beautiful decor, paintings, stained glass, tiles etc. Every station had a new character and it was fantastic to jump on and off. Get a guide to see the main sights.;5;June 8, 2012
Ticket to Ride;Amazing. Crowded and confusing at first, but unbelievably efficient. If you are there for a few days go to the ticket window and use hand signals for the number of rides you want.. We bought 10 rides per day. Cyrillic is confusing, so count stops for sure. Stop at as many stations as you can because they are works of art and history.;5;June 8, 2012
Simply Amazing;If your daily routine is teh London Underground or New York Subway (Grand Central excepted) then you will be completely stunned by the amazing architecture and the opulence and garndeur of the Moscow Metro. Be prepared to spend a whole day exploring these stations which vary from Greek Temple to hsitoric monument, oh and dont forget a spare set of batteries for yoru camera, you will be taking more picture sthan you can imagine.;5;June 8, 2012
The best way to get around Moscow;My wife and I take the Metro to work from our apaptment every day. We use the Metro to get anywhere we want to go in Moscow.;5;June 7, 2012
Easy to get around;If you dont speak the language just count the stops. Each station is different too so easy to keep track of your station. The chandaliers and statues are amazing.;5;June 5, 2012
Metro!;It was a little confusing, but I think that it was because my Russian is limited.  As with most metro systems it was crowded, and waiting to buy tickets sometimes can be a shoving match!;4;June 5, 2012
nice marble, decor;My wife and I took a Guided Night Walking tour of the Moscow Metro to see all the themed subway stations. Earlier in the morning we tried to do it on our own using a guide book and some phrases in Cyrillic and found it difficult to navigate because it was not easy to decipher Cyrillic alphabet. The guide made it quick to see all 6 or 7 stations and It was indeed amazing to see all the marble, stained glass designs, crystal chandeliers, and bronze sculptures. Another plus is we learned a bit of their history from our guide Kira. Worthwhile seeing at night as the Metro is not as crowded.;4;June 4, 2012
Initially a challenge but a great system;The only way to travel in Moscow but nothing is in english - nothing. Study a system map and write out on a 3 x 5 card the symbols ( at least the first 4 or so ) for the stop you want and the final destination on that line. The lines are color coded on the map but not in the stations.The stations are written on the wall opposite the platform and the first car has the final stop on the front of the car. If you are not sure stop and regroup - a train comes every three minutes. Count the number of stops to get off, if you made a mistake a train will come in three minutes. If you have to make a transfer follow the crowd but avoid the word Bbixo - this means exit. The more you use the system the easier it gets. The stations are deep but no deeper than Atlanta or London, well lit, clean and well marked. A five ticket ride cost 135 rubles, just put up five fingers and hand over a reasonable amount of rubles and you will get your ticket and change, no smile but 2 out or 3 ain't bad - Russian just don't smile. If you are confused someone may help you if you point - the answer will be in Russian but they will point you in the right direction.My wife and I are grey hair seniors, young people got up immediately and gave us their seats, you don't get that in most of the world. Have fun;5;June 4, 2012
Unlike any other Metro!;We visited some of the most beautiful stations in Moscow, accompanied by our guide, and were thoroughly impressed by the architecture; it was a bit like being in a museum.;5;June 4, 2012
Beautiful!!! Best to vist at nite arond 9pm ish if you want to take fotos;Beautiful!!! For 28p a metro ticket you can tour around the network as long as u wish. Dont worry if you miss the train - the next one shall be in less than 2min...very efficient system.Too many communters during the day/ rush hours. Best is to do it around 9-10pm. Best 5 to do: Mayakovskaya, Ploschad Revolystsii, Belorusskaya, Komsomolskaya, Arbatskaya (outside, the star-shaped entracne)No English sign (even for "Entrance" or "Exit"... just follow other communters. Plan ahead which route you wanna go to avoid spinning around looking for the right way... );4;June 3, 2012
Moscow Metro;We had a private tour of the Moscow Metro. What a treasure that was. This was another tour not to be missed.;5;June 2, 2012
Wonderful subway system;We criss crossed the city seeing the different subway stations wonderful wish we had time to see more wonderful clean and beautiful go see;5;May 31, 2012
what can i say...it's Russia;If you do not speak Russian, or do not have a guide....and if you are not very "quick" do not go in by yourself ;) Very large system - gets you everywhere, but requires a bit of thinking for first timers. Watch out for beggers and people going through your pockets potentially :) I like to hold my purse close to me, have it zipped up. If you are wearing a backpack, turn it around and wear it on your chest ;0). Be aware, but dont look paranoid - not every one is out to get you. If you are planning to on more than once just buy a 5 or 10 ride pass. It could be difficult to ask for directions, as people are not as friendly as they are in Canada or US. Good luck to you and email me if you have any questions :);3;May 31, 2012
Best way to move around Moscow.;Just don't forget to stay on the right side of escalators...;5;May 31, 2012
An Art Museum under the Streets;not to be missed the stations are each unique and have a personalty of their own represented by their art work...fantastic and unique!;5;May 30, 2012
The easiest way to travel;I fall in love with Moscow metro, easy and fast, also not very expensive - les than 1 dollar, and great inside;5;May 29, 2012
Beautiful stations, heavily used.;The trains themselves are OK, and come frequently. It is very important to have a guide, unless you read Cyrillic. Really enjoyable Soviet-era experience.;5;May 28, 2012
Must see;One side — dirty, crowdy, full of beggars, depressing, poor navigation.The other side — some stations are masterpieces of Soviet-era architecture.— officially, you can shoot in the metro with any equipment, but only if you are not using tripod for your camera and not interfering with passengers — which is quite impossible. So — no tripods;— night (10—12 PM) is best time for visit;— you can use one ticket several times (as far as it has charge) in row — in contrast to many other metros, tickets here have no any lag time after first using. So — many people — one ticket;— prepare yourself in advance for Cyrillic names of the stations. There is no English navigation at all; — indeed, everyone has his own list of favorite stations — and there is no problem for google all the information about every station. But, anyway, be sure not to miss these ones, at least:-- Киевская-- Электрозаводская-- Кропоткинская -- Арбатская-- Площадь Революции-- Маяковская-- Сокол-- Воробьёвы горыRecap — must see. Recommended by local.;4;May 27, 2012
Moscow's unique gem;If you think public transport is dull...think again.;5;May 27, 2012
for a few dollars you have a full day of sightseeing;easy to navagate.  we went in near our hotel then got off at every station on that line.  then switched to another and saw all of those.  absolutely beautiful structures, mosaics, bronze sculptures....  truely and underground art gallery!;5;May 27, 2012
Amazing stations - take the time to do this tour.;Our tour guide arranged a good schedule for us - getting on at one station - off at the next.  One would think they were in a museum to see the different stations, beautiful art and statues, and chandeliers.  We ended up at Arabat Street for lunch.  So glad we saw this.;5;May 26, 2012
Great rail system;Great way to get around but helps if you can read Russian;4;May 25, 2012
Excellent;Fast, convenient, beautifull stations,The minuses: noisy and you nedd to be able to read Kyrillic letters;5;May 24, 2012
A museum indeed;Moscow metro is intricately decorated. All stations are not the same. It is heavily guarded by police but beware of large crowd traveling through.;4;May 23, 2012
Best way to explore the city;You have to use the Moscow Metro. In my opinion it is a museum in itself. Try to avoid rush hour as there are so many people and you won`t have time to admire the beauty. One of the Metro`s have brass statues...don`t forget to rub the nose of the dogs...it is good luck. In some places the info is now also available and it makes it a little easier.It is a huge metro and can be very intimidating but it is the best way to explore Moscow and to get a glimpse into the life of the Muscovites.;5;May 22, 2012
Best way to see the city;The Moscow metro may seem intimidating at first, but it is extremely easy to use with frequent trains and clean stations. It is best to go prepared with a map and know how the station's name as it appears in Russian or count the number of stops. Ticket offices are at most stops, but the automatic ticket machines are also easy to use, buying one or two fare tickets. It is much cheaper than cabs (28 rubles for one fare) and avoids that constant traffic jams that now plaque downtown Moscow. The art deco stations with their extensive use of marble and the classic rail cars are a plus for travel. Don't be surprised by the speed at which the trains travel.;5;May 21, 2012
Difficult but truly amazing;With no Russian this was at first confusing but if you go by line color and look at crosslines you soon get the hang of it. Count stations as many do not have signs on them and only the newer carriages indicate the stations unless you understand the announcements. It is very cheap and amazingly trains come every 2 minutes so you do not need to stress about missing one . The older stations are also architecturally amazing;4;May 21, 2012
Metro museum Moscow;If U're really interested in russian life strongly recommended  to visit !A bit oldfashion =);5;May 21, 2012
Most beautiful metro stations in the world!;Moscow metros were made for the people.  Works of art, they are some of the most efficient metros in the world, with trains every two minutes.   Personal favorites include Kievskaya, with its beautiful mosaics in ornate frames, Markovskaya in its stainless steel glory, and Ploschad Revolutsi with the bronze statues.  Rub the dog's nose for good luck!  Other beauties are Novoslobodskaya with its stained glass, Park Pobedy (Victory Park) (mural), and my own station, Beloruskaya which also has lovely mosaics and a big statue of Lenin.  One thing to note--sometimes the stations are multi-story so you might miss the most beautiful part if you don't explore a bit.  You could do the whole tour on one or two 26 ruble tickets if you stayed underground the whole time--once you pass the barriers you have to buy another ticket.;5;May 19, 2012
Busy.;Just go for the expierience. There is push without shove, clean and rich.  Learn the cyrillic alphabet. It is worth it.;5;May 17, 2012
Don't do it alone;9 million people a day use the subway in Moscow. It is very efficient and certainly the quickest way to get around but there is no English signs at all(not suggesting there should be). We went with a private guide to see some of the beautiful stations. Worth a couple hours;3;May 16, 2012
Efficient;Noisy but very frequent, cheap and quick.  The metro is THE way to get around Moscow.;5;May 16, 2012
Well connected, but poor signage and little English;The Moscow Metro is clean, inexpensive, and efficient.  The stations are breathtaking with a great deal of effort put in to their creation and upkeep.  However, as my guide showed me, Metro staff do not speak English and signage (i.e. directing people to different subway lines, etc) needs improvement.;4;May 13, 2012
Praise the glories of the Soviet system;The taxi drivers in Moscow have embraced capitalism and will try to rip you off any chance they get, unlike New York or London, the taxis don't have meters, so you have to negotiate. The roads in Moscow are circular, and it seems as if everyone has a car, so the traffic can be notoriously slow. My colleague Alexandra and I had meetings at Deloitte and PwC adn we took a cab, but we took the subway back to the hotel, if you can figure our Cyrillic or have a translator (thanks Alexandra) take the subway, it's like a fast and cheap ride in a museum praising the glorioes of Communism. Our trip to the meeting Rub300, 20 minutes our trip back Rub32, 5 minutes.;5;May 12, 2012
Metro;Old stations are beautiful, but the "younger" one (circa 1960s and later) are just ordinary subway stations.;3;May 12, 2012
Useful, clean, cheap, efficient and pretty;We managed well using the metro even though not speaking any Russian. Local people are VERY helpful and a couple of English speakers also stopped to help when we got a bit lost. Locate the kiosk at the entrances, called Kassa. Tickets prices are posted on a sheet there - about 26 Roubles per ticket. We just smiled and held up fingers for how many tickets we wanted to buy and said 'spasebo' alot. For multiple tickets you get a blue card and it shows how many are left when you place it against the reader at the metro entrance barriers. It is better to get one ticket per person, otherwise you could have one sole ticket with say 10 rides on it and you have to keep passing it back to your companion after the barriers. There are three ways of writing Russian ! Guide maps show what I think is lower case, also the signs in the stations have upper case and books have transliteration in English script which only helps with pronounciation and not reading names. We learned the name of our local metro station. By using the line colours, line numbers and looking at the Russian words and making matches between them and the books we managed easily. Remember that when you enter the metro station, which might have three lines converging, just follow the correct colour initially. Once you get to the platform itself you only then need to establish whether the destination you need is on the right or the left. COUNT the number of station stops and keep counting whilst on the train. The biggest problem we had was that station names are NOT PROMINENT. In London, for example, the name is repeated about 8 times along the wall so you cannot miss it. Not so in Moscow where it might be against the back wall only and in pale gold appearing only once. So you must COUNT stations. If stuck, ask people on the train 'Is this Paveletetsky? and they'll help nicely.It helps to look up and  make sure you can recognise the Russian for 'exit', that would help you too.We found the metro, cheap and very speedy and efficent with no delays. Even on May 9th when there were thousands leaving Red Square after the fireworks everyone moved so efficiently and calmy that we moved smoothly through.There were very few beggars in the metro and a few buskers. There are lots of kiosks where locals shop, we felt safe the whole time using it.At the bottom of each escalator there is a tiny booth and someone sitting in it all the time, they are monitoring the naughty people ! If anyone mucks about they use a microphone and loud speakers to tell them off, which we thought was hilarious but it worked.I saw one person using a wheelchair on a train but was not very aware of any lifts. Some escalators are VERY long indeed and could be tricky with small children or pushchairs.;5;May 12, 2012
Circle of Underground Palaces;Apart from being the fastest way to get anywhere in Moscow, it is one of the most beautiful attractions of the city. I mean those stations, which are inside the Circle line.  Better to "visit" with a guide (at least with a map) during off-peak hours.;5;May 11, 2012
Moscow Metro;It is definitely worth seeing the Moscow Metro, especially any station on the brown circle line, there are many self guided tours which list the best stations, the history and what to look out for. You can do this self guided very easily. Make sure it is done on the weekend as rush hours are crazy. A single ticket takes you anywhere and costs less than a dollar. Also have a metro map in latin and cyrillic alphabets. You can see all the stations in a few minutes and catch the train to the next station as one comes every 2 minutes on average.;5;May 11, 2012
Moscow Metro;The best transportation in Moscow. Quick. On time. Not expensive. The only problem is, if you don't read russian letters, it's difficult to use. But I really recommend it. Very interesting stations.;5;May 11, 2012
metro station;The Moscow Metro is very efficient. There are both old and new trains, depending on the line you use. What is most noticeable about the Moscow Metro are the stations. Each station is a work of design and architectural art. I was also impressed with how clean it was compared to other European metro stations.The air in the stations is very polluted, according to me but friends were fine with it.;5;May 9, 2012
A great way to get around but also very beautiful;The metro is well organised and although it takes a little bit of getting used to working out the stops (as there is no English in the actual metro itself) it is quite easy to navigate. Many of these stations are really beautiful - take your camera!;5;May 8, 2012
Very efficient;The Moscow Metro is very efficient and reliable. It is tricky if you don't know the cyrillic alphabet though as there are no signs in English, but easy to use once you get used to it. Make sure you are familiar with this alphabet or get a metro map with both the Russian and Latin spellings so you won't get lost.;5;May 8, 2012
Go for some "subway tourism", focus on the stations architecture;So it was raining in the morning in one of the days we were in Moscow. What to do? Tourism in the Metro stations! You won't be disappointed as some of the stations are spetacularly built/decorated. Please note that it's important to be used to subway systems, and also to pay attention to where you're coming and going. You may get lost if you're not used to it. Also it's strongly recommended to know a bit of cyrillic, at least just to notice the names of the stations.The following are the stations I recommend you to visit: - Blue line: Kievskaya (Киевская), Arbatskaya (Арбатская), Ploschad Revolyutsii (Пло́щадь Револю́ции), Elektrozavodskaya (Электрозаводская).- Brown line: Novoslobodskaya (Новослободская), Prospekt Myra (Проспект Мира), Komsomolskaya (Комсомольская) - you'll see many saying the Komsomolskaya is in the red line, but the station in the brown line is that matters.- Grenn line: Mayakovskaya (Маяковская).There maybe others but I think those are enough for a 1-2 hours of "subway tourism". These are all somewhat close to each other.;5;May 5, 2012
Art for the people -"visit" the circle line;The old metro stations were made during the soviet times and are decorated with proletariat themes. The most beautiful ones don glass windows and statues;4;May 5, 2012
USA expat in Moscow;WITHOUT A DOUBT, the best thing in all of Moscow or Russia!!!  It is THAT good.  I see huge tour groups everyday just going station to station along with 9 million commuters. Under 1 USD anywhere.  It is "must see before death thing".  Pic shown here is Mayakovskya, that is "average nice", you must see the really jaw dropping stations!!!;5;May 3, 2012
Make sure....;You know where you are going, and stations for getting on or off, or connections...... or you will be lost and almost no one can help you out, as they rarely speak any other language but English.;3;May 2, 2012
History on the go;Every station has its face, especially central stations. Recommended- Novoslobodskaya, Mayakovskaya and once you start, its hard to stop!Metro ticket will cost you £0.50 (if you buy a pack of 10;5;April 30, 2012
Moscow Metro;Each metro station is different and wonderful!It reflects Russia history.;4;April 30, 2012
Best metropolitan subway in the world !;Very efficient: one train leaves and the following arrive.probably the best way to move in  Moscow: fast and cheap.and the stations...just take the round line and see the all nice ones;5;April 29, 2012
the most beautiful in the world;When I was 15 I used to work as a tour guide in Moscow. We learned all of the historical facts about the construction of each station. The stations we traveled through each day. The most magnificent are along the brown circle line. Get off at each one and walk through. You will see how immaculate the marble and granite floors are kept and how they reflect the bronze sculptures and the stucco and mosaic ceilings. There are crystal chandeliers and stained glass. It's really more of a museum than a metro per se. The Komsomolskaya and the Mayakovskaya stations are stunning!;5;April 29, 2012
Great once you have worked it out;The best way to get around but it takes time to get used to the system. It is not friendly to the new user and tricky if you don't read Cyrillic script. Just deciding which platform and direction you need can be a conundrum. Once you get used to the stations linked underground you can work out routes more easily. The flat fare for a journey is wonderful and long may it last into the capitalist era. The trains seem to rattle along faster than other metros but this may be an illusion created by the elderly rolling stock.;4;April 28, 2012
underground travel in  style;like and underground city all in itself. clean and beautiful.;5;April 27, 2012
very impressive;visited that city more then 20 years ago, very impressive good memory  nice people there.;4;April 24, 2012
Not a big fan of Moscow Metro;Crowded, lots of pickpockets, and stops are written in cyrillic.  I can read cyrillic writing and knew which stop I was looking for and it still took me 20 minutes to find the right train.  Exits are even worse as stations "share space."  You can start in one station and end up in another at the same stop.  Very confusing.  It's not impossible but (a) guard your personal belongings (I didn't carry anything... everything in pockets INSIDE my coat) (b) take your time and read carefully.;3;April 23, 2012
A museum in itself;Many of the stations have such elaborately decorated stations that are well worth a walk through. Buy the one ticket and just opo on and off at the different stations to enjoy mosaics, painting, statues and wonderful lighting.;4;April 23, 2012
Metro;Most unusual, as I went through the different hallways, I was thinking that it couldn't get more beautiful but it was.  Loads of pictures.  Next to St. Basil's it was the most beautiful site in Moscow.;5;April 23, 2012
The best way to travel around Moscow;The best metro service I've ever tried. It takes you everywhere and there's a station in almost every corner, it's cheap and I felt safe. And it seems that the wagons will be renewed very soon for the World Cup.Of course it's not perfect because entering the wagons is similar to "Black Friday" in a department store.;5;April 23, 2012
EFFICIENT BUT HARD WORK;The subway system on paper looks easy but it suffers from two major obstacles to cracking the network.  One is that everything and I mean everything is in Russian,.not one English sign anywhere.   Secondly there seems to be two styles of Cyrillic script, so even if you are where you thought you were you cannot be sure because the characters are different.  Make sure your subway map has both the Cyrillic and the English names together.  The subway carries vast numbers of people all day, so it is generally crowded, bur Russians seem to respond to that with great politeness and fortitude.  You have to have a go, but it ain't easy.;4;April 22, 2012
Surprise;Some of the most beautiful underground stations in the world!!;5;April 20, 2012
Quick way to get around;But I would have been lost if I was´nt with someone who knew how to read Russian - impossible to guess where you are and where to go - no signs in English;4;April 20, 2012
A must see;We visited the Konsomolskaya station, deemed one of the most spectacular. It was almost like entering a palace.;5;April 19, 2012
Fabulous stations and a very efficient network;Opened in 1935. Provides the link between the centre and remote districts. Radial structure follows the city's historic layout. Numerous lines and 180+ stations. Entrances marked with a large red M. Pros:It felt safe, with numerous security guards at each station. Spotlessly clean - I saw cleaners numerous times wiping the escalators or cleaning the floors. Fast and regular services. The young regularly give up their seats for women and the elderly. Every station appears to have a different build with paintings, tiles, mosaics. Tours are available around the main Metro sights.Cons:All signage in Russian.Make sure you don't get whacked by one of the station entrance/exit doors!;5;April 18, 2012
Cheap and amazing;If only the tube was so cheap, beautiful and efficient!;5;April 18, 2012
Excellent service, trains every minute;...but no concessions to western tourists. Very hard to navigate and not an attraction in itself. Better sign posting could make all the difference at very little cost. The staff may short change you if you do not speak Russian.;2;April 17, 2012
Most beautiful and fastest metro in the world;The metro is worth spending half a day for seeing the details i.e. in the metro tour http://moscowfreetour.com/ There are so many positive aspects in this metro, that they cannot all described here.If you have a smartphone get yourself the moscow metro App, which helps you getting to your destination. If you don't understand Russian you need to count the stations as you'll usually can't see the station name while you are in the train.Once you got used to the system of colours and arrows pointing the way you'll like it - but beware walking distances between the lines are sometimes really far, and stations often have more than one name - each per line.;5;April 17, 2012
don't try in rush hours;to take your time and get the impression in full one should get started exploring Moscow metro during the day on weekends or at about 9pm or late on business days. Navigating here won't be easy if you don't read cyrillic alphabet. be attentive to colored guidelines matching the color of the line you need, then to take the train in your direction you can point your finger on station you need on a scheme and ask young people around to help you. There is a strong chance they'll speak to you in English, at least a couple of words, but that's quite enough to get where you need. Some stations are a great competition to the Versailles halls, so be sure to keep some space on you camera :);5;April 17, 2012
Busy, but brilliant;The Metro is the best way to get around Moscow - quick, reliable, and easy to use. It does get very busy though. The Circle line is also architecturally a joy to behold!;5;April 16, 2012
The most amazing metro in the world;Cheap, clean, efficient, and many of the stations are works of art. Trains are very frequent and fast. Yes, it is crowded and a bit confusing, but people will stop and help if you look lost. You will soon get the hang of it. The only way to travel around the city.;5;April 16, 2012
Quick and cheap;Never waited more than a minute for a train. Trains never got really full. Quick journey time to city centre. 6 stops/15minsBought a 10 journey pass which is good value at around £5.50/$9Best way to worked out when to get off we found was simply to study the map and count the stations. Also remembering the first three characters of the station name in cyrillic helps. The name of the station you are arriving is eaisest to see on the wall of the tube next to your train rather than looking for it on the platform side.;4;April 16, 2012
WOW;An experience not to be missed when in Moscow. The tyrains and the artworks.;5;April 15, 2012
Fantastic if you read Russian;Only in Russia are things not written in the Roman script read by the entire world. The metro system is mindblowing with some 11 lines - but the names aren't written in English. neither is the announcement in the trains in English. Be prepared to spend about 30 mins a day figuring out the metro - having said that - no better way to travel. Buy the 10 trips pass for 256 Rubles.;2;April 14, 2012
Moscow has 1 of the best subway systems in the world.;The subway is very cheap - about 1 USD. Subways travel to almost every place a tourist might need in Moscow. It's very easy to understand (I speak and read Russian though) and it's very clean. 1 thing, Russia does not believe in convenience for people who are handicapped or have strollers: you will not find elevators in Mosocow Metro, some places have escalators others just the stairs. Also, it gets very crouded during rush hour. Overall, I took the metro everywhere I went, the best way to get around in Moscow (traffic on a weekday, especially rush hour is horrendous).;4;April 12, 2012
Underground beauty;Moscow Metro includes some of the most beautiful construction underground.  The system is fast, safe and cheap, and once you understand that each line has it's own coluor code and number it's easy to learn your wat around.;4;April 12, 2012
Would never think it was a metro!;We enjoyed popping around via the metro they are beautiful! The vaulted ceiling in the Mayakovskaya station is a must to see. It has mosaics painted by Russian artist Alexander Deineka. We used the metro as our main source of travel & felt safe doing so, just be a smart traveler & keep your things zipped and in front of you there were guys scouting for victims. The metro is not in English which poses a bit of a problem especially if you have a map that is in English so take my advise and have a dual language map for the metro. The lines are coloured & numbered, I hope this helps!;5;April 10, 2012
Function and form: touring the world’s largest underground museum.;The Moscow Metro is a rare tourist destination in the sense that it serves both a practical purpose (public transportation) and an aesthetic one (many of the stations are literally works of art).  If graded purely as a means of transport I would give it an “A-.”  I rode the Metro exactly 20 times in my 10 days in the city and never had an issue.  The trains run frequently and crowds are present but rarely interfere with your plans to get anywhere.  For most tourists a 10 or 20-ride card will suffice and is easily purchased at any ticket station.  The signs are in Cyrillic but the lines are color coded and as long as you have a map (preferably in English and Russian) you’ll be fine.It is when you experience the Metro as an artistic destination that it becomes truly memorable.  I believe this is best done with a guide (mine was excellent – Tatiana Sazonova at www.viewrussia.com) as there are no formal descriptions of the art works anywhere nor is there anything like an audio guide to purchase.  After an informal lecture on the beginning of the system and the importance of the Metro in Soviet society we toured probably a dozen stations, each a miniature museum in its own right.  The highlight for me was the Mayakovskaya station, with its art deco styling and ceiling mosaics.  It is also historically significant as Stalin addressed a mass assembly of party leaders there in 1941 and it functioned as an air raid shelter during the early part of the war.  The Ploshchad Revolyutsii station was a close second, with its 76 statues depicting people of the Soviet Union including soldiers, farmers, athletes, and writers.  Other highlights were literally too numerous to mention but include the Komsomolskaya station’s bust and mosaic of Lenin and the Kievskaya station’s nod to friendship with the Ukraine.         You have to put a bit of effort into appreciating the Metro but you will definitely be rewarded.  It is as much of an integral part of Soviet history as the KGB offices, Red Square, and the Kremlin.  Highly recommended.;4;April 7, 2012
best in the world!;Clean stations, old ones with decoration which may be considered pieces of art.;5;April 5, 2012
Great history and heritage;We went with our guide from Moscow Private Tours.The history and the marble train stations are amazing.The monuments and amazing ceilings and stations are breath taking.There is a brown line with about twelve individual stations with their own individual beauty and history.A cheap day out and a great day as well.Trains run every 2 mins so you can hop off and take a look at all stations.;4;April 5, 2012
Check out the metro stations;Worth taking yourself down to these stations, if only to see the amazing mosaics;5;April 4, 2012
Magnificent Metro;Few are better in the world. Seriously.Architecturally interesting and frequent trains. Generally clean too.Avoid rush hour if you are claustrophobic (8 to 10am and 4 to 7pm);5;April 3, 2012
Easy access to most of the city;The metro was one of the highlights of the trip.  It was cheap ($8 USD for 10 rides) and could get you almost anywhere.  Trains come every 3 - 5 minutes so you never have to wait.  Go during rush hour and people push you like crazy - get ready for little personal space.  Otherwise, it's great.;5;April 2, 2012
Great Way to Get Around;You will need to plan in order to know where you need to go to quickly maneuver during peak commute times (it can become rather congested).  Google maps is plugged in now and makes things much easier.  There are phonetic English versions of the stations.  So one doesn't have to feel completely daunted.  Getting help can be a challenge, so make sure you are prepared.;4;March 27, 2012
one of the biggest in the world;advise take a good picture with your mobile from the map, its not very cheap to travel with, but it runs very frequent.and it travels fast. Every change of train cost you again a ticket5 travel tikets are availeble in most desks inside stations;4;March 27, 2012
Not Tourist Friendly;The metro is the best choice to save time and money. but as Russians do. no English on the signs. they just don't care about tourists in this country!;2;March 27, 2012
the best ever!;beautiful, fast, convinient! looks likes more than a museaum!;5;March 26, 2012
One of the best Metro Systems;To start from the beginning, enter through the proper door (you'll see enter and exit), and be careful, these doors are heavy as they keep out the cold, so they may swing back and hit you or if you don't hold on to it, it may hit the person behind you, so always look back. I was told they take these doors off in Summer.Just buy 10 "dyes-yat" from the counter and they scan each time you go through. Once you are on the Metro, you can travel it all day, each trip lasts from entry to exit, so most people will meet up at transfer stations, ie: Instead of meeting friends at a stop, I took my train to Ploschstad Revoylutii station which was on mine line and hers, we met up then took the train to Chisty Prudy from there so we didn't have to ride alone. The metro runs so fast and even if someone jumps in front of a train or there is an issue, it will be up and running in no time. As morbid as it sounds, those who use trains anywhere in the world will will know, this is a common occurrence... It can be extremely packed and squishy but usually only for one or two stops, unlike Beijing or Tokyo where it's squishy for a long time, Moscow locals will push there way in as they know it's only for a minute or two, so don't be scared, get into it!Lastly, each station is like a museum, so stop and take a second to appreciate the Marble beauties. At Ploschtad Revoylutii, stop and pat the dog (You'll see what I mean). It's for good luck I think.;5;March 25, 2012
Not as easy as St Petersburg, or other Capitals;No shortage of trains and other travellers will try to help you.  The problem comes if you don't understand Cyrillic!!  Yes, the network route maps in the carriages have both languages if you are close enough to see them but do you know if you are going in the right direction etc...  Internet info will say that in the platform concourse the route maps are in both languages - it was not [Cyrillic].  It is usual for there to be exits at both ends of the platforms but the sign information only in Cyrillic - so which will you use?.  Agreed, that in London it is in English only - not Cyrillic...but I have travelled in China and several parts of Europe without Metro difficulty.;2;March 25, 2012
Great system but needs to be in English;Every station is a museum however signange needs to be improved;5;March 25, 2012
quick and easy;The metro is very easy to understand, and the changes are very very convenient. It is very cheap, much cheaper than in other European countries.;5;March 23, 2012
Great way to get around and experience Moscow;This was easier to use than I thought.  Still not as straight forward as St Petersburg but you can get around the metro without the help of a local.;5;March 22, 2012
Beautiful - NO English;Beautiful BUT NO English at all!!!!!!!They must put up signes in English!;3;March 21, 2012
Crowded, but well worth a visit.;It is the only way to move across the city center during the day. This or traffic jams. But pay attention to stations. Some of them are very interesting.;4;March 20, 2012
try to avoid or go at nigh time;i believe that it's worth visitibg only at nigh time with special excursions. otherwise that's a complete mess with crowds of people.;1;March 17, 2012
Travel All Russia Travel Agency very competent and helpful;the travel agent Ksenia made my long trip very enyoyable. She organized to have a guide and driver at every station the Trans Siberian stoped. It started with Moscow and Ludmilla, than to Siberia with Ivan and Mongolia. All in all this trip was very well organized. I would recommend it.;5;March 16, 2012
Worth a visit;The Moscow underground Metro is well worth a visit, at least to see the Arts works on the walls as well as just to experience the hustle and bustle of Moscow.;4;March 14, 2012
Moscow Metro Tour;Did this tour with Free Moscow tours and it was absolutely worth it. I would not recommend doing this on your own. You are bound to get lost. These stations are really something to see.sp much splendor and beauty. Was waiting to hear some classical music, but nothing. Many, many people!;5;March 11, 2012
Moscow Metro;Unique! Much more than a means of transportation: its older stations are a symbol of the Soviet labor enthusiasm on the one hand, and brilliant (in all senses) examples of the Soviet artistic styles and dominant tastes.;5;March 5, 2012
An underground subway system that is also a Museum;I think a ride on the Moscow subway system alone is worth a visit to Russia.  But you do have to take some time, and you do have to get off at each of the stations.  What you will find is that it's MORE than just a transit system: it's a beautiful museum as well.When the underground system was built various architects and designers were commission to do different stations.  It was like a competition, each trying to out do the others.  Some stations are done totally in goldish colored glass; others in marble, etc.  There beauty and uniqueness is well known: you can buy a series of post cards with the names and pictures of each of the stations.If you are clausterphobic you might be deterred by the long and fast escalators going down to the stations.  Most are still made of wood!Modern western underground transit systems are clean, smooth, and effecient.  Moscow's has non of those qualities.  It surpasses them all with innovation and beauty.;5;March 4, 2012
Old stations are really majestic;Old stations are really majestic. Some even have their stories and customs. My favourite station is Revolution Square (Ploschad Revolutsi). It's decorated with lots of statues and I never miss the chance to touch the bronze dog's nose. They say it brings you good luck. I wish it worked!;4;March 2, 2012
The most beautiful in the world;One of the most wonderful undergrounds in the world - you will never see anything like that in Europe or in other parts of the world. All the metro stations are different, so if you have time - go out on every station to take photos. Central stations are the oldest, but some of the farthest ones are also worth seeing (for example, Dostoyevskaya station, inspired by Dostoyevsky's masterpieces). Unfortunately, for those who don't speak Russian it can be a bit tricky to find their way in metro, so take a guide or a russian friend with you. And also try not to be there on peak hours, when moscovites go tofrom work.;5;March 2, 2012
Very old;Old, lots of people, but amazing. Foк example baumanskaya - really interesting station;5;February 29, 2012
Truly palaces of the people;The Moscow Metro is clean, efficient and cheap. On top of that, riding the ring line (along with some other stations) is like visiting a series of little museums of the Soviet era. Stations are decked out with chandeliers and public art ranging from statues to stained glass to mosaics. Each station has a different theme. It is well worth the price of a very cheap ticket and a few hours of your time to tour some of the stations. Note that the stations can get very busy during rush hour as hundreds of people exit the trains that arrive every 3 minutes or so at key stations.;5;February 26, 2012
real piece of art - ensure you explore it very early or late;I haven't seen such a beautiful underground transport in any country. You'll get the list of nicest stations in any related forum. But definitely this should be Novoslobodskaya, Ploschad' revolyucii, Dobryninskaya, a lot of others. Red line (sokolnicheskaya) has 1 very nice old-style train (brown-yellow) and 1 styled as red arrow. Dark-blue line (Arbatsko-pokrovskaya) has nice train with pictures inside - like train-museum. You should just stay and wait for it, however it can take a lot of time... Plenty of interesting information and pictures can be found at mosmetro.ru, but info is in Russian only. Important thing: please ensure you explore Moscow metro early (before 8 am) or late (after 9 pm). Weekend is also ok. During normal working day it is very busy transport - you will be just washed away by the crowd.;5;February 26, 2012
The palace for the people!;No visit to Moscow is complete without a trip through Moscow's vast underground system - it's one of the metro systems in the world that used heavily and without it, traffic in the city would be even worse than it is. It's incredibly efficient  and fast (longest interval between trains is 4 min, quickest during rush hour is 30 seconds) and living in Moscow, I prefer the Metro to a car most days. Just try and stay away from it during rush hours in the morning and the evening when it gets unbearably full. Visit Mayakovskaya, Beloruskaya, Ploshad Revolutsi - generally all stations in the city centre are worth a trip. Beware of pickpockets.;4;February 26, 2012
Museum like quality in the metro;We spent so much time just touring the architecture and the artwork in the metro.  Its old world, gothic style with lots of art.  I can't believe thats what their metro station looks like!;5;February 24, 2012
A great experience;Take at least a day to go to diffrent stations to enjoy these magnificant metro stations. Hope you don't mind hights, because you have to go on rollercases really far down. It's cheap and fast. Way better than taking a cab.;5;February 24, 2012
Nice, helpful people;The ticket issuers were extra helpful and once even gave me written directions, in spite of a huge queue behind me. Trains are crowded during peak hours but are comfortable at other times. Trains are a bit old, but the stations are very nice to see, made of marble and granite, and architecturally good. All signs are purely in Russian Cryllic alphabet and thus difficult to decipher. But people are helpful and help if asked.;4;February 24, 2012
Metro;the brown line of the metro was the most beautiful, every station has statues which people rub for good luck. they rub different statues depending on which one means more to them. something to do with the war i think, not too sure.;4;February 24, 2012
Metro is both busy and glorious;Get a guide to explain the architecture and history. Very busy with people, but the stations are spacious and there is place to stand and look around;5;February 19, 2012
The Best!!;Clean, efficient and in some stations gorgeous. Still trying to figure what the brownish sawdustish material is that they use to sweep the stairways.;5;February 18, 2012
fast and convenient;the best way to get around Moscow! All the sights are close to metro stations. No use paying money to taxis.;4;February 18, 2012
the most baeutiful and deepest Metro station;most of the Moscow metro station are artistic and beautiful. I've been so most of the station and i found they are interesting. My favorite is metro in ploshad' revolyutsii . with mini statues in the pillars. Amazing, and also to get to the platform you should pass through the deepest escalator. It's nice and amazing experiences;4;February 18, 2012
Must visit;It is huge and cute. Especialy in the city center. Beware of pickpockets;5;February 17, 2012
Great way to get around, but can be hard to navigate for non Russian speakers.;The Moscow Metro covers a large area of hte city and is a great economical way to get around. The taxis are expensice in comparison and take a long time due to the traffic issues in the city.Try and avoid travelling at rush hour, as the locals will push and shove you out of the way.Also for non Russian speakers, print off a copy of Metro map with the station names in English. Ths signage in the stations are very limited and hard to read, so make sure you know where you are going before heading off on your journey.;5;February 14, 2012
Don't let people put you off;Everyone (including Russian friends) warned me against going on the metro on the grounds it was confusing and full of people waiting to steal my bag!! I took the same care I would in any busy city - the stations are beautiful and after one false start, when I ended up where I had started, I made the most of this warm and cheap method of transport. The trains are clean fast and frequent and there are lots of maps on every platform.;5;February 13, 2012
Moscow Metro;It is amazing, the design is huge and so clean, you feel in a museum.;4;February 11, 2012
that's Mayakovskaya =)) I work here;Moscow metro is very beautiful. The station at the pic - Mayakovskaya (green line), I walk here every day when going to my office and then going back home. There are beautiful pictures on the ceiling. Another great station - Novoslobodskaya - my university is located near this station. Stained glass pictures, they're amazing! Local people take this beauty for granted and I only realized we have such a treasury when I saw metros in NY, London, Rome, Barcelona,  Valencia - they can't be compared anyhow.. The deepest point ща Moscow Metro is 84 meters. Just imagine 748 steps on the escalator at station Park Pobedy (Victory Garden), ha?;5;February 11, 2012
Is this a museum?  No, just a metro station;The metro stations in Moscow are not less than awesome.  Many of them look like real museums built in marble, brass and finely decorated.  Besides, it is efficient and takes you anywhere you may need to go in Moscow.;5;February 10, 2012
Don't go there in rush hour;The best time to visit it is around 3pm, when it's not overcrowded. Visit Kievskaya, Vystavochnaya and Slavyansky Bulvar Stations (blue line).;5;February 7, 2012
I love this place;It is both a museum and art gallery under the earth, beautiful as palaces can be.;5;February 6, 2012
Some of the stations are quite beautiful.;The stations are different from each other with beautiful art and fixtures. Kind of amazing and a must-see. The metro itself is a bit confusing to Americans who like me don't know Cyrillic but it's doable and worth it to avoid the horrific Moscow traffic. Just figure out in advance exactly where you're going and count the stops on the train!;5;February 5, 2012
Efficient, cheap... and beuatiful!;Amazing to look at, trains seemingly every minute, and a fixed price of 28 roubles (c 60p) no matter how far you travel.  An outstanding achievement and design, take note London!;5;February 4, 2012
Moscow Metro;It's great with some great architecture in some stations.  But there are long walks at some connecting stations and having 2 stations with the same name but in different locations is just daft!;4;January 31, 2012
Surprisingly interesting subway;Each deep underground metro station has a unique style and artwork.;5;January 31, 2012
Going underground;If you happen to be in Moscow over the weekend - Sunday is the best day to ride Moscow metro. The rest of the week you'll just see millions of people passing by in the the huge crowds. Most interesting stations are in the center obviously;4;January 30, 2012
An experience!;Old trains and high speed but efficient and the stations are amazing. would help if you can read russian as its hard to navigate otherwise. Recommend to any metro lover;3;January 30, 2012
Nice;Comparitive to any other subway station this one is somewhat better but still not incredible. It is in fair condition and is a great way of transportation but that is about it.;3;January 29, 2012
Most beautiful!;The best and most beautiful undeground in the world. I use it once a week. But very crowdy.;5;January 29, 2012
Take time to learn and you'll enjoy it;The first day, the metro was a bit intimidating. Especially since I didn't speak Russian (I spoke English).  I took the time to learn the way it was organized and then I was able to get around without any problem.  Russian spelling can be a bit confusing. Make sure you get a map with the real spelling and the phonetic pronuciation. When you are travelling, keep track of where you are.  It can be a great deal of fun to travel all over Moscow via the metro. This was one of my favorites when in Moscow.;5;January 28, 2012
every station is unique;Old metro stations in the centre are quite beautiful. It's better to take a guide who will tell you some interesting stories about it. But keep in mind that in the mornings and evenings Mon-Fri it is VERY crowded there.;4;January 28, 2012
Worth a look, but not at rush hours;Well, I live here, so it is hard for me to rate things I see every day.We boast our metro is an underground castle. The fact is, that it is so only at some stations. The ones close to suburbs are dull. There are centra stations worth visiting (especially in the circular line). But please, please, don't go there at rush hours (the worst is in the morning till approximately 10-11 a.m., the evening one is slightly better, it starts at 5 pm and gets full strength at around 6-7 pm. I heard photos are already allowed, if you do not use the so called "professional cameras" (that is the ones with independent flash or removable lense);3;January 24, 2012
Beautiful but overcrowded;I really think that Moscow metro is the best in the world - very-very beautiful and various.There are lots of stations which are really museums.But: it is too overcrowded, esp. in rush-hours. You can't get into the carriage. People are pushing each other.If you are visiting - don't miss a chance to see it, but if you have already seen it (esp. the central stations) - use taxi.;3;January 23, 2012
A trip to Moscow is incomplete without trying the most interesting Metro in the world;Remember to work out where you want to go before going down underground as everything for lines and stations is in Cyrillic with a few comparisons. In my mind this is one of the most spectacular metro system in the world. Firstly during the rush hour trains arrive every 50 seconds. Secondly it's an incredible experience being completely crushed and unable to get off st your stop (only between 8:30 and 10:00).Mostly though is the increble architecture which many guide books spout the superlatives. You have to make your own mind up but all the stations in the centre are incredible for their architecture, themes, statues and friezes. Some are works of art - my favorite Kievska from the dark blue line. One entry is 26 rut. So buy a ticket for ten trips which two of you can use for five trips. Go to the cashiers window - smile and hold up ten fingers. They know what you mean. And they are extending the lines into the outskirts of the city. Beats London, Paris, Berlin, New York and Hong Kong. Try and arrange a "Russian meeting" in the cavernous platform halls. You will see how the locals all stand around waiting. After all keeping warm, cool or clean is important. Have fun and take care.;5;January 22, 2012
Lines.. Lines.. so many Lines..;Before I headed to Moscow, every post I read, warned me about how hard it is to make it out alive from a metro system. It is indeed a challenge to maneuver through the Moscow metro. Whoever said that the trains look like those in Budapest was absolutely right. I would HIGHLY recommend writing down the routes (number of stops, name of the stop in Cyrillic - as there are NO signs in English and heading direction for your route. Also, Do NOT rely on the colours of the metro line told to you by a local since they tend to confuse them. Eg, there's a teal coloured line and a green one and they'd say green for both. Orange and red are interchangeable too so just rely on either numbers or on the English subway map in your hand/on your phone).;3;January 22, 2012
Fast, Efficient, Artistic;We used the metro to get all around Moscow - it is much more efficient than walking or cabbing. Each station is unique and different which made it an amazing tour experience in itself!;5;January 21, 2012
Take the night tour;This is one big station. Take the night tour it has alot of hidden areas that are quite interesting.;4;January 18, 2012
Everyone really helpful;The stations are amazing.  Lots of strangers helped us get around which once you learn where you are, becomes easier to navigate.;5;January 18, 2012
Night Tour;My husband took the night tour of the subway and was blown away by the stations that are more like museums!;5;January 17, 2012
Memorable Moscow Metro;All stations look different inside and some has wonderful artsy designs. Photography allowed. Avoid rush hour.;4;January 17, 2012
Do not miss;Need to know where to go. But in a right place - a peace of art!;5;January 13, 2012
Good interior but nothing more;Moscow Metro is famous for its interior: mouldings, sculptures, mosaics, pictures, etc. However, it has nothing else that can be admired. There are many tramps, beggars; the Metro is not clean, it has thick air, stinking air. It's very uncomfortable and not clear for foreign tourists.;2;January 13, 2012
great;never seen such majestic metro in my life. marbel floors and walls.recommnend you take the day pass. Take a picture of your station because some russian letters looks the same.;5;January 11, 2012
It just a Normal Metro...;maybe for some foreigner which never see metro station it would be good, it was good experience..noisy sound of people that in a rush, there some pick pocket around, just be careful they are everywhere..;3;January 11, 2012
Need speed?;If you need cheap, speed and very nice looking way in Moscow, use metro. Mostly nice-looking stations is a Mayakovskaya, and any stations on circle line.;5;January 11, 2012
Excellent in terms of decor!;However, trains could be more modern ;) Otherwise - good service if travelling during off-peak hours (in peak hours this is becoming  the most craziest place!);5;January 10, 2012
Clean, big but noisy;Metro in Moscow is the best wey to move in Moscow because of its big network. Stations are clean and well-kept. You can visit meny beautyful, historical stations. Not 5/5 beacuse there are very noisy trains which are in bad conditions and most of stuff dont speek english.;4;January 7, 2012
Most impressive subway ever;what to say? many, many, many stations, decorations from the communist past stays there to remind everybody. very functional, clean, fast, you can get everywhere very easy, even if you dont read cirilic!;5;January 7, 2012
Beautiful but difficult!;I don't think an English speaking person can get around effectively without getting lost!;4;January 6, 2012
fabulous artwork;similiar named stations spelt like leftover scrabble letters! Best to count stops as you will not even see the station names until you get off the train!;5;January 5, 2012
Difficult to start but beautiful to watch!;I wanted to give it a 5/5 but I simply cannot because there are trains and escalators which are in bad conditions. However, it is absolutely evident that this country had been in many wars since there is so many beautiful train stations (particularly in the circular line) with statues and paintings about WW2 and Russian history. One advise, try to avoid exiting in metro stations that interconnect with the railways because you might get into trouble, specially if you are carrying your camera around your neck or your luggage. Another big difficulty is the language, so I also advise you carry a metro map in russian and memorize the russian name for exit! Very important I'd say! Last but not least, the atmosphere is very hot and during rush hours prepare to be squeezed!;4;January 5, 2012
WOW...., Unbelievable...;I went to a couple of metro stations in Moscow, such as Kievskaya,  Belorusskaya, and others which I can't remember the names (brown lane).. They are unbelievably beautiful.. Moscovites are proud of their metro stations and we can see that no graffiti's littering the walls...;5;January 5, 2012
Interesting & efficient;Even though there are no ticket machines, it's easy to buy a ticket with limited Russian - just hand over the exact change for the ticket you want! And if you travel with a transliterated map, it's easy to travel through the metro, even almost all of the signs are in Cyrillic. The metro is similar to the tube in London or the metro in Paris, but the uniquely decorated stations are a must-see.;5;January 5, 2012
Wow experience!;But avoid rush hours!!! The best time to see the subway is Sunday noon.;5;January 4, 2012
Beautiful stations!;Liked: the metro stations in Moscow are art works! I liked taking the metro during the calm hours of the day just to look at the walls, archs, vaults and very long escalators. Each station is unique!Disliked: the rush hour, when people leave the work. Avoid it!;5;January 4, 2012
A guided tour of the Moscow Metro is essential;We had a private guide - without her we would have missed much. The Moscow Metro, constructed in the 1920s and 1930s for the most part, was the central core of how the communist state was going to improve life for its citizens. The stations are historic works of art, many with mosaics, ceramics, bronze statues, chandeliers - not to be missed but very hard to navigate as the signs are in cyrillic and not at all in English.;5;January 4, 2012
Well worth a visit;We booked a local guide to escort us around the Metro and show us all the main stations. The guide was invaluable as he explained the history of each station and took us to all the main sites. The Metro is a fascinating place to visit and well worth seeing.;4;January 2, 2012
Superb!;It was very unique and wonderful. No doubt why it is the most beautiful metro in the world :);5;January 1, 2012
Excellent, Efficient and Safe;The Moscow Metro is one of the best in the world.  It was clear, efficient and safe.  There are attendants at all the stations we visited and police were visible at many entrances and on the platforms in the busier stations.The trains flow through the tunnels at 30-60 second intervals, and the signage is relatively easy to follow.  The price is also very reasonable - costing about AU $1.00 per trip - no matter where you travel on the system.;5;January 1, 2012
terrible noisy;I believe it is the noisiest and the most overcrowded metro in the world;1;December 29, 2011
Moscow Metro;The Metro stations are very deep, and the elevators, very fast! The lack of English signage is a complete turn-off, and only a few youth know a smattering of English. The train coaches are a mix of the old and the new, and are relatively good. The rush hours are best avoided.;4;December 27, 2011
Beautifull stations;Quite easy to use after a little "lessons",In Moskow trafic ounly way moving from place to place,Very beautifull and all stations different from others...and very cheap as well..;5;December 25, 2011
Good and efficient;Must be able to read signs in Russian: inside the Metro there are no English words for stations.;4;December 24, 2011
Monumental soviet art;Its very noisy, but really beautyful!And in first: stations Arbartskaya, Plotchad Revolutsii, Kievskaya, Taganskaya (ring), Krasnopresnenskaya (ring) and modern Sretenskiy Boulevard.;5;December 23, 2011
Safe and Efficient;Found this metro very easy to navigate.  It was cheap and although the trains were a bit old the stations themselves more than made up for it.;5;December 21, 2011
More than just a subway!;Unique attraction that certainly doesn't compare to Red Square, but fun and interesting nonetheless. The first thing you'll notice is how deep the metros are. I even got a little nervous as the escalator kept going down and down. Then the reward. Each station has a theme design from roman, classical to Renaissance to modern. There are bronze statues, marble columns, paintings and murals, and even stained glass panels. We started at a station near Red Square, and then got off at 4 consecutive stations before returning to our start. We had a guide with us who told us what we were seeing.....good idea. The metro was clean and safe.;4;December 19, 2011
Fastest way around Moscow;The Moscow metro is inexpensive and convenient for getting from one side of Moscow to another. Built in the mid 1930's, the architecture offers many photographic opportunities.;4;December 19, 2011
Amazing! Must See.;If you're in Moscow and don't travel by the metro, you're definitely missing something. The way it functions is amazing and some of the historical metro stations are masterpieces. They can be easily passed off as the interior of a palace. Must see stations are Mayakovskaya, Ploshchad Revolyutsii, Kropotkinskaya, Kosmolskaya, Novoslobodskaya, Novokuznetskaya, and Mendeleevskaya (dedicated to Dmitri Ivanovich Mendeleev, the creator of the periodic table).Also, it is amazing to see how they managed to create such deep metro lines so long back. Some metro stations actually have 3 levels of unending escalators. Small tip: Stand on the right side of the escalator if you're not planning to run down the escalator :);5;December 19, 2011
Some stations very impressive, just don't go in Rush Hour;Having heard much about the Stalin-era metro stations that were left completely untouched, I was very intrigued and submerged underground ... was very impressed but then had the misfortune of actually having to use it as means of transport later in the evening and it wasn't a pleasant experience - certainly different to the London Tube in that it actually presents interest to check it out ... but don't go in rush hour - WAY worse than in the UK!!!;4;December 14, 2011
Plan your trip first, then go;The Moscow metro has two major flaws: everything is in Russian and you need to figure out where to go when you enter it. If you enter a platform and look behind you if you went the right way, nothing will reassure you. You will have to go back to the beginning, either the entrance or the bottom of an escalator, to see the sign that gives you the right info.So: prepare your trip well.;4;December 14, 2011
My favorites;Especially Mayakovskaya, Zvetnoy bulvar, Ploshad revoluzii. You can visit www.metro.ru to choose stations to see.;5;December 12, 2011
busy &confusing metro;the things i didn't like is that there aren't any directions in english in the metro. How tourists are suposed to know where to go?;3;December 11, 2011
Amazing, not only a public transport;It's not only a simply Metro line, ever station have a Story, you can see in all the station a lot of monuments and arts the first time sure you open the mouth. usually if you want visit a city don't take the metro but if you don't go lose the city, only problem with the signs are difficult to understand but not impossible;5;December 10, 2011
The Moscow Metro is a tourist attraction in its own right!;Make sure to visit it a variety of metro stops in Moscow as they are all unique and special.  We took over 30 photos of just the stations.  The only place in the world with Metros like this... they are art in themselves!;5;December 9, 2011
Organize your own free Metro-Station tour!;It worths to visit some specific metro stations of Moscow. I recommend to visit the following stations: Majakovskaya, Komsomolskaya, Kievskaya, Novoslobodskaya and Elektrojadovskaja. You can organize your own free tour. You will find in the internet many useful information about the history of the metro stations and your cost is only 0,50-0,60 euro (with one ticket you can go to any line or station you want). A useful tip is to visit the stations in night hours (after 22.00) because it has less crowd and you can enjoy and have some pictures quietly.;5;December 7, 2011
You should have a trip in the brown circular line;The brown line has as i remember 11 or 12 stations, they are the best. U ll c details, great details;4;December 6, 2011
Wow! Just incredible;The Moscow Metro stations are truly amazing (especially those on the brown #5 line) with such intricate mosaics / designs. I would definitely recommend taking some time to wander through some of the stations - it definitely has to be seen to be believed. We took so many photos - though getting one without a whole bunch of people in it was quite tricky.;4;December 4, 2011
A Must See Place;When I saw Moscow Metro as a sight seeing place in websites before actually seeing it, I was wondering what a metro could offer to a tourist. Well, it is not a metro but an underground town! So large halls, with sculptures, paintings, lots of lights and so on, the Moscow metro will surely fascinate you and make you question your home town subway.;5;December 2, 2011
Stunning;A lot of the metro was built in the early 1950s at the behest of Stalin. The idea was that they were palaces for the people. And they are.As well as being efficient, they are crowded. The trains are very frequent and they travel surprisingly fast.You can spend a day underground stopping at every station on the circular route, taking photos of the architecture and the swirling, swelling tide of people passing by. I know this as i did it. Photographs are too large to post here but well worth it.Plan your journey to stop, gaze and snap.There are few maps of the system underground. So if, as happened to me, you are evacuated from your train due to tunnel works, it can be an adventure getting to your destination using a cyrillicly challanging route.Go and enjoy.;4;December 2, 2011
Not long to wait between trains;Trains can come every 45 seconds at rush hour - this is amazing.The trains often leave something to be desired, but the gallery trains are impressive.I don;t need to repeat how amazing some of the Metro stations are, but a visit is a must.;4;December 1, 2011
The Underground Museum;This is a must do. As New Yorkers, we were so impressed that a large city could have a metro with artwork, sculptures, chandeliers and statues that are treated by the Muscovites with respect and pride. We were also impressed with the cleanliness.Our Tauck tour guide escorted us to 3 different stations, each unique. We especially loved the Ukranian paintings depicting the local life and customs in one station and the 1945 huge wall mural at another station. There was a statue of a dog in one station and we learned the quaint custom of rubbing its nose for good luck.It would be a great idea to get a guide or have your hotel concierge map out a plan before you enter. Be careful with the escalators - they are very steep and scary.;4;November 30, 2011
Beautiful architecture and ornament... for a subway.;Moscow is very proud of its subways, and they are truly a sight to see.  But in a city of 12 million, don't expect it to be a pristine art museum.  The trains are frequent and efficient, but no signs are in English, so you must wrap your brain around a bit of Cyrillic.  They'll get you close to anywhere you want to go in the city, and are very cost effective.;4;November 30, 2011
A must!;The Moscow Metro has some great art, mosaics, sculptures, etc.  It is so efficient and comprehensive.  It was a great place to see Muscovites!  So vibrant.  So authentic and local.  Wish we had more time on the metro.;4;November 29, 2011
nice decoration, reliable service;Very conviente but you must be carefull since there are only a few signs in English.;5;November 29, 2011
Definitely worth doing a tour;The Moscow metro isn't like any other metro in the world. It's unlike London Underground, or the NY subway, or the Paris Metro. When done properly, with a small tour group at a relatively cheap fee, it's well worth it. The architecture, statues, paintings and mosaics are absolutely amazing. You get to see some of the stations just going around on your own, but doing it on a tour you get to lovely colourful explanations and you really get to see which stations are special.;5;November 27, 2011
Best Metro in the world!;Amazing value for money, huge network. Very few signs in English / latin letters and watch out for pick-pockets at peak times and crowded boarding;5;November 27, 2011
Statues with guns;loads of statues of people with guns everywhere. Mak s you wonder what they where thinking 80 years ago.A real trip back to the mentality of the cold war and communism . reccommended!;4;November 25, 2011
Works extremely well;Remember have you own metro map with you. If you cannot read Cyrillic letters just follow tube line numbers and try to find out last stop name, do not follow colors in signs and remember check which direction you are heading right away after entering platforms. There is not too many signs. There is also few confusing stations where could be only two different lines in one platform. It is not logical north-south or west-east. Calculate beforehand how many stops because it might be that you will not hear announcements. Train every 2min works well. You can see next train coming from wall monitors end of platform.;5;November 22, 2011
the photos are more beautiful than the reality;if you had seen the great photos, you can expect much more than you will see;3;November 21, 2011
Even the esculator down there is amazing;A little confusing  but if you get it wrong just cross the platform and come back;5;November 20, 2011
A must-visit by itself;Various metro stations are state of art! Visit as many as you can.;4;November 20, 2011
hidden museums;you could spend an intire day down there,and not understand that.it is by far the cheapest museum Moscow has to offer,because with just 28 roubles you have all the museum that you can get!!!Mosaics,marbles,statues,chandeliers,stained glass treasures that stay hidden under the surface waiting for you to be discovered!!!!;5;November 20, 2011
History at low proce;Most of the stations have amazing soviet-inspired settings. But the most amazing thing is how clean the whole place is: not one single paper on the floor, no graffitti. Loads of people. Only negative point: everything is written in Russian only, so take a guide with you, or you may stay there for the rest of your life...;4;November 20, 2011
Horribly provincial in terms of directions but fast and reliable;One of the most efficient metro systems I've been to in the world, BUT unbelievably provincial when it comes down to sign posting and marking directions. One station can have as many as 4 names depending on what line you are coming from and there's no way you will know if this is the one for you to get off or not!Colour coding simply SUCKS or is not existent! There's nothing in English! And even in Russian there is NO sufficient explanation as to where the right interchanges or exits are.Once you've found your way around, you'll be pleased with how reliable and fast the service is! So this will make it all up for poorly presented directions. And yeah, the stations are beautiful!;4;November 19, 2011
Fantastic System (but Not If Mobility Impaired);The Metro is just as fantastic as all the other reviews say it is.  I used it constantly during a ten day visit and found it to be fast, reliable, and cheap.  As many reviewers have point out, there is some bodacious architecture, statuary, mosaics, and so forth in some of the downtown stations.I do want to put in a plug for a station on the Red Line (#1) called VOROB’EVY GORY.  The station occupies one level of a bridge over the Moscow River and is out over the water with nice views in both directions.  The station platform is a spacious area flooded with natural light which contains numerous attractive tall round display cases.    You just ride the metro in, get off, wander around the display, and get back on the next train going whichever way you want to go.  Various shows come and go.  While I was in town, there was one on Czarist era porcelains that was fantastic.There are some downsides which have been partly mentioned in other review. (1) These trains run on time.  Whether you are all the way on or only partly through the door, the door will close.  Do be careful, esp. if traveling in a group and scrambling to get everyone through the same set of doors.(2) The Metro system is not good for the mobility impaired.  There are lots of stairs.  Some are  very long.  I was glad that my wife, who walks slowly with a cane, had not come with me on this trip, and so did not have to contend with this.(3) The pickpocket problem is real but should be kept in perspective.  Metros all over Europe are the pickpocket's natural habitat.  DO NOT PUT YOUR METRO CARD IN YOUR WALLET.  This forces you to take out your wallet, allowing the pickpocket to see where and how it is carried.  Carry a few rubles and your metro card in a change purse.If those factors pose no problem, the Metro is you magic carpet, and will make the Moscow Metropolitan area far more accessible than most mega-cities will ever be.;4;November 19, 2011
Beautiful;One of the highlights of our visit to Moscow, a visit to the metro stations beautifully decked out, made all the more interesting by our superb Intourist Russian guide who took us to exactly the stations we needed to see & was able to give us the details to each stations individuality;5;November 19, 2011
Something not to miss while in Moscow;Moscow Metro especially the Circle Line is something not to be missed. Aside from being a great way to move within the city avoiding trafic, the stations in this line are incredible to visit, each one of them is wonderful to look at and wander around. The design, and all the detail makes you feel like if you were in a museum.;5;November 18, 2011
They don't make them like this anymore...;I'm talking about the art that's on ceilings and walls, and sculptures at metro stations in the center of Moscow. If it seems daunting to navigate the Metro at first, get a local guide to show you around. It's worth seeing.;5;November 16, 2011
Be aware;Signs are in Russian, colors of different of lines are tiny.But they are very fast and you would definitely avoid the cars overcrowding.DO NOT TRY TO JUMP;5;November 16, 2011
Better than London's Tube;It's quite cheap to use at 28 roubles per trip (any destination with any number of line changes) with trains every couple of minutes. There are some spectacularly decorated stations particularly on the Circle line.Signs are only in the Russian Cyrillic alphabet so you need to be prepared with a good map or printout of the required stations.Although the ticket counter staff do not speak English they are used to people using sign language saying how many tickets they need.;5;November 14, 2011
Amazing!!!;You can never imagine how beautiful metro stations until you visit the Moscow metro stations!!  Each one is like a piece of art on its own.  Most importantly, they are very very well maintained and clean.;5;November 13, 2011
Fast trains;During rush hour, the trains arrive each minute.  The trains are older, but they are clean.  Several of the stations have great artwork, so it is worth the time to have your concierge point out which stations are worth seeing and reserve a half day to ride the trains to see these stations.;5;November 12, 2011
Moscow to St Peterburg cruise;the best trip of my travels so far, on an Icebreaker, the Novikov Priboy.Travelled through the Volga canal, then Volga river, through a series of locks and lakes beautiful beyond speech, stopped at Uglich, Yaroslaval etc, really worth every cent, we visited the kremlin, the Armoury, saw Ballet at the Hermitage, bought arts and crafts, beautiul amber from genuine vendors on Sparrow Hill, Moscow. and oh what a perfect holiday. St Catherines Palace and the Amber room devine beyond speech, and St Petersburg needs at leat 14 days, not just a few overnights !!, St Basils awesome to say the least,if you have the opportunity GO there !!Much enthusiasm in travelling, Misty Cresswell;5;November 11, 2011
Exciting and different;I like to take the underground in Moscow even if I do not understand very well the signs.;3;November 8, 2011
Exceptional Service - Goes everywhere you want to be;Get a Crylic map to match up the crylic stops.  That's all there is to it.  Figure out the line color that is going to where you want to go.  Then pick the direction by either the next station or the end of the line designator.  I couldn't read them but could match to the map. Don't rely on english translations, they don't exist in the "tunnels'.For get about all the pickpocket BS.  Guards everywhere.  Take care not to be target and pay attention to where you are going.  Enjoy the rush hour push and shove..... everyone else does.Cars and stations were spotless except for old grafitti.  Trains arrive every 5 minutes so really fast.  Ohhh, and don't rely on the train color.  Use the color track on the opposite wall for train color and direction to next stops and connections.ESPECIALLY Don't miss historic engravings in ceilings and walls like MAYAKOVSKAYA - Incredible.;5;November 7, 2011
Wow!;Great value at 26 roubles, or less than 50 p, with trains taht are every couple of minutes in rush hour, punctual, few disruptions and most beautiful stations with marble and a sense of grandeur not found in UK. Great experience ad safe in the best part of my stay;5;November 7, 2011
Moscow's best architecture is underground;While St. Basil's surely epitomizes Russian architecture, the Metro system is a close runner-up. Each of the stations is uniquely beautiful. My favorite station was the Komsomolskaya (brown line). It looked like a glamorous ballroom with chandeliers and ornate frescos. Other stations have old soviet designs, which were also fascinating. At 28 Ruble a ride, it's well worth spending some time on the metro, just to marvel at the impressive stations. I suggest taking the Koltsevaya (brown line) all the way around the city. Functionally, it will get you anywhere you need to go within the city and is much faster than driving a car. Transfers between lines are free.Be ready for large crowds at any time of the day. Also, like most public transportation systems, there are beggars and crazies, so be mindful of your belongings.;5;November 4, 2011
The best Metro in the world - If you can read Russian.;Many people, but many trains as well. If you want to get in time, use the Metro.;5;November 4, 2011
Magnificent metro;Some really impressive stations and an efficient service.  Easy to understand and although as crowded as you'd expect in any rush hour relatively hassle free.  Remember, Muscovites don't understand the concept of personal space!;5;November 3, 2011
Beautiful stations and metro was always in time;Nothing to complain. Waiting time for the metro was less than a minute, so you didnot have to wait very long.Only, the info was in Russian, but still easy to understand.;5;November 1, 2011
Wonderous;Has to be the most beautiful public transit system in the world.  Some of the stations could be ballrooms!  Fast, cheap and efficient too.;5;November 1, 2011
Art in Daily Life;Why not enrich human soul with artistic expressions in daily life? We can see a good example of how this can be achieved in Moscow's metro stations.;5;October 31, 2011
stations are amazing!;almost each station, which build in the old Soviet time is like a museum on its own! take 10 times ticket and go underwold to see that!;4;October 30, 2011
The Subway as a Tourist Attraction???;I couldn't believe I would be praising a tour of a subway system, but it rates a 10+  You do need a guide as there are NO signs in English, but it was probably one of the best 3-hour sightseeing options we were offered.   And because of the horrendous traffic congestion almost day-and-night in Moscow, using the subway is a great option - cheap and safe.  However, I wouldn't try to use it if you haven't had a tour to give you some confidence in how it operates.  The stations were BEAUTIFUL - varied and unique with statues, mosaics, stained glass, chandeliers, etc.  There was no graffiti - amazing!;5;October 30, 2011
Worth the struggle;The only way to get around town if you don't want to sit in traffic, but a real hassle to navigate in that Cyrillic is hard to read, so assuring that you're going in the right direction, and that you'll get off at the right stop is a bit of a mind-bender.;4;October 30, 2011
Riding the Metro;Explored 3 stations, artworks are amazing. What a metro should be, clean, well lit and safe;5;October 29, 2011
If you know which stations to see, should be great, otherwise not.;We use metro just for few stations and we didnt see any of those soooo wonderful mosaics etc..I think you should ask where to go, to see what is worth.;3;October 29, 2011
Moscow Metro;You could do the the stations on your own but having a guide or a tour will help you and allow you to enjoy the stations without worrying were you are going.;5;October 27, 2011
Check out the Railway Stations;Spend a day looking at all the stations on the metro ring. The stations are like large ballrooms with marble columns, fresco's or mosiacs, amazing art deco lights and stained glass windows. The trains and stations are incredible clean with an absence of the usual graffiti, rubbish, and deadbeats hanging around.;5;October 26, 2011
a nice surprise;Did not realize that Stalin created works of art via the metro stations!;1;October 25, 2011
Great and Easy;Very well maintained.  Constant train schedule.  Easy to follow as long as you have a detailed map with you.  Do NOT rely on metro posted signs alone.  Very inexpensive.;5;October 25, 2011
Frequent service.  Always crowded.  Count number of stops to your destination as it is often difficult to read station s;As is usual in most cities, civil servants in Metro station speak/understand only their own language.  A bit of Russian helps, as does sign language.;4;October 25, 2011
What a lovely surprise!;Hidden underground were the most fantastic stations ever seen. Each one was a different design, all breathtaking. A definite must visit!Tubes were also easy to use, cheap & easy to understand;5;October 23, 2011
Very Cultural!;NYC should take a trip to Moscow to see how it should be done...;5;October 22, 2011
Truly original;Moscow metro is really like a city within the city. Even those who may not like the architectural style are surely fascinated by the scope of it.   Koltsevaya Line (Circle Line, brown) is the best for sightseeing.;5;October 21, 2011
Best surprise on this trip!;OK the Metro is awesome. This may be the best subway system anywhere.  The trains were fast and efficient. The cars themselves were older but very clean and had plenty of room.  I couldn't believe how clean the whole subway system was. The best part was the art in the different stations.  You could seriously get out at each station and take pictures of the artwork on display. One station had beautiful mosaic of Lenin in various scenes.  The Metro was a super cool surprise find on our trip!;5;October 19, 2011
Moscow Metro;It is like a museum at some parts, with beautiful decorations and many chandaliers. Each station is dedicated to some person or event. Even the ones that are glorifying communist strugle look really interesting.You can buy one ticket and cruise the metro as much as you like as long as you don't go out. I recommend taking your time and going out on stations that seem interesting, taking a small tour (some stations have 2-3 levels), and eb relaxed as trains are passing literally every minute.It's a must see!!!;5;October 19, 2011
Beautiful but where are the signs?;It is a museum, but there are no signs. Forget about the fact that it is in a language that I dont speak and an alphabet that I am not familair with, there are simply no signs. The ones present are small and not always visible! So pay attention where you are at!;5;October 18, 2011
solo travel in russia;If you'd rather travel solo than not at all in Russia and don't speak Russian tthen you should know the magic words-pronounced is venici. It means excuse me and using this phrase will get most Russians to stop, whether in the metro or elsewhere.  After that you can point to a destination on the metro map and most people will point you in the direction of the platform which will take you to your destination.;4;October 16, 2011
They are beautiful and busy!;For just a few rubles you can see some beautiful art.  The metros have stained glass, bronzes, marble...you name it.  I found it was a great way to spend a cold & rainy afternoon.  The map you get at the hotels lists the top 7 or so that have the best to see.;5;October 15, 2011
Don't Miss;The underground stations are Art Galleries in their own right.  Well worth the fare to go and see even if you are not using them for transport.Those escalators are a bit scary though until you have been up and down a few times, so steep and deep.;4;October 3, 2011
The Moscow Metro is a must see;Our rides on the Moscow Metro were a great way to navigate through the city along with thousands of Moscow residents going about their daily lives.  The Metro is realtively clean and efficient as well as safe.  Recognizing the station were you need to get off is often a challenge since all of the signage is in Cyrillic.;5;October 2, 2011
Fun;Some of the stations are interesting.  The architecture is fanciful and the ability to get places is wonderful.  Mass transit anywhere is great.  Get a good map--one you can read.;5;September 26, 2011
Amazing stations;Some of these stations are absolutely amazing. You would think you were in a museum or a church. The down side is the pickpockets. KEEP A CLOSE EYE ON YOUR SURROUNDINGS AT ALL TIMES!! At times they were very obvious, and acted like the pack of little animals they are, particularly when we were admiring/taking pictures of paintings and mosaics on the ceilings. The communication techniques and movements were right out of a national geographic documentary. Our guide told us they also like to force you into subway cars, relieving you of your valuables in the process.Enjoy the views, just be careful, and aware of your surroundings.;4;September 26, 2011
the best way to get around the city;While on vacation in Moscow, my husband and I utilized the extensive and inexpensive metro system.  My husband can read and speak enough Russian to ask where things were and read the Metro sighns, but I believe if you are accustomed to ANY subway system you would have no problem getting around, even if you cannot read a word of Russian.  We took a mini bus from the airport to the metro station and breezed right to our hotel.  I downloaded a map of the airport before we left and had the bus numbers that took you to the metro; the buses were clearly marked and easy to find, even for me!    I am not used to ANY subway system (I am in my mid forties and had never been on a subway before) and cannot read Russian so it was overwhelming and confusing to me.  I just followed my husband around enjoyed the ride, the beuatiful stations and came up with a protocol just in case we became seperated.;5;September 25, 2011
Wow...;Not only you can't move around without, in view of Moscow traffic, but some stations are real architectural gems.;5;September 23, 2011
Sounds strange but on't skip this! Great fun;Take an hour and find a guide - we did 7 stations in about an hour as our guide knew exactly how to visit the stations.They are all different and simply remarkable. Clean and artistic we were VERY glad we did this. The designs and splendour are really worth seeing and it is so cheap for the price of one subway fare you see them all!;5;September 23, 2011
The best way to get around;Heard a lot about Metro before coming to Moscow and it even exceeded expectations! First it's really beautiful, second it's clean, third it's cheap, fast and easily understandable (if you have a metro map with you) and last - it is the only way to get around Moscow. Taxis are very expensive and actually unreliable, sometimes very old cars. And that famous Moscow traffic! On a taxi you will spend an hour where you can get in 10 minutes by metro! Highly recommended.;5;September 23, 2011
Great way to spend a rainy day and keep warm!;Spent a rainy morning riding the rails to orient myself and to become familiar with the system. Many of the stations are spectacular and pristine clean and all have maps with both Cyrillic and English spellings which helps work out where you are.;5;September 23, 2011
Best from Moscow;Metro in Moscow is one of the best in the world, no doubt the cleanest one and very frequent. Can´t miss the UNESCO heritage stations “Mayakovskaya” and “Komsomolskaya”, but also “Beloruskaya” and “Kyevskaya” are worth to see. For modern architecture fans “Kropotkinskaya” and “Art-deco-one” station “Novosvobodskaya”. Very good and low budget alternative during the rainy day.;5;September 22, 2011
great value and fast;traveling in Moscow can be nightmare if you use taxi there are very expensive and busses are crowded and in both the trafic very bad so the best is to use Metro and it's cheap and fast but you have to walk;4;September 22, 2011
Not sure if a museum, or a metro station...;Besides the practical advantages that this metro has (very quickly, developed in all town, very short time between trains, a few levels etc.) it impresses with its look, with its museum appearance. All the station placed on the circular line look like a museum with sculptures, paintings etc.;4;September 14, 2011
Awesome;We visted all the historic Metro Stations.They are awesome and some resemble grand ballrooms rather than underground stations.They are quite unbelievable with the stained glass, frescoes, chandelirs and beautiful murals. Impeccably clean, even though hundreds, if not thousands of people go though them every day as they are fully functioning stations.;5;September 13, 2011
What a train ride!;Visited Moscow and just had to take a visit to the Metro. An enormous underground train network, and if you are taking a visit make it part of a trip.  Having been on undergrounds all over the world, this was different and confusing. What you forget to appreciate is that unlike any other underground the letters are different with no English anywhere, and the locals don't speak English to help you. So when you get off at a station, get your bearings or you will very easily get lost.  The stations are very grand and have a story to tell in their architecture.  With large chandeliers and wall art it is a treat.  On one station there is a huge plate on the floor, and no doubt others for the idea to work.  In the event of a nuclear attack, the plates are raised and it plugs the underground.  Whilst.....nearby there is a bunker located at the otherside of one wall situated 300m below a school, so that it looks innocent.  Go to the visitors centre to book this trip, because the Metro and the underground nuclear bunker are the same trip.;4;September 10, 2011
Moscow metro an underground art gallary;You must include the Moscow metro as part of your tourist adventure. Some stations are truly amazing to see. Mass cathedrals. Truly beautiful.;4;September 10, 2011
Clean and very fast;The stations are like art galleries! Make sure you get the train going in the right direction, but then they're so fast and frequent you can alwasy change at the next one.The staircases are steep and very very fast!Lovely experience!;5;September 1, 2011
A great way to get round Moscow;Wonderful stations! Watch out at intersections though as each line has it's own station name, and the signage is not that clear.;4;August 31, 2011
Make sure you've been in the Moscow metro at least once;Every city I go to, I plan to use the metro - Moscow was no exception. Have to say though that it is not as easy with all the signs being in cyrillic, but after a while you get used to it. Komsomolskaya is one of the most luxurious metro stations, so make sure you are there :);4;August 29, 2011
small and nostalgic, for russion speakers only;The place is really nostalgic and historic for native moscowits, but the casual tourist wouldn't find many interesting exhibits. The quite small space contains mainly old certificates and photographs, and some real-life old pieces of equipment.The place is publicly run, so the entering admition is free, and it seems really unfit for tourists- hard to find entrance, no English, and not too much to see.If you grew up in moscow, like my wife, you should probably go, and have fun a nostalgic feeling, like she had. Otherwise, save your time for other things.;2;August 25, 2011
Crowded but amazing architecture;Busy! Get a 10 trip (say 'dyesit' and hold up 10 fingers!)at the 'Kacca' booths in the stations. The machines will tell you, as you go on to the Metro, how many trips you gave left. Trains very frequent but hide your valuables/passports etc as there was some suspect activity on a couple of our trains. learn Cyrillic and be aware that interchange stations will hve different names for whichever line you are on.;4;August 24, 2011
Best activity in Moscow;For 28rub (price of a single ticket), you can essentially ride the metro for as long as you want, changing onto different lines, getting on and off trains to really marvel at the different architecture and grandeur of each station.They are all unique, some worth looking at more than others, but certainly an inexpensive, very worthwhile activity!;5;August 23, 2011
"The live undeground Art museum";Moscow is known for the Red square and the communist past.But I think that the next most well known site after the museums ,are the metro stations.The first thing to mention is how cleen they are,the second thing is how safe they are and finally :how nice they are.All travel books mention the stations and especialy the first dozen of them.If you are crazy enough about this kind of art then you can visit during one day all of them with only one ticket !I want to name just a few out of the best stations:Kievskaya,Komsomolskaya,Ploshad rev.,Taganskaya,Park culturi.Most of them feature all marble coloumns and floors with unbelievble care for details like the mosaics or tens of statues.Of course in albums and other official pictures they look much better because they were shot when there are no passangers,but still you can not stop wondering about this achievment.Each day of our stay we deliberatly chose two or three stations just to be there and savour the beauty.I did not see too many people taking photos-I assume most of the tourists are on an organized tour sitting in a A/C bus and listening to some explanation without feeling the streets and the real people.I posted plenty of photos on my facebook but Google search will help you too to have an impression of the metro stations.Enjoy and regards Yoav and Miriam;5;July 29, 2011
Effecient and Effective with some added beautiful stations;My first time in Moscow and I find the and I was a little apprehensive at first to use the Metro system. However after my first trip it wasn't that bad and then a few trips later I have to admit that it is a pretty efficient way to get round the city.A 10 trip ticket costs 265 RUB and you just sign in on the way in and no need to sign out on exit. A very easy system to use. Compared to the subway systems in most other parts of Europe I found the lines that I used pretty good. On my way to the office and back to the hotel there were Metro's at least once every minute and even on Sunday the frequency was not more than 5 minutes! I haven't even experienced this in Western Europe!Added to that there are a few stations that are just beautiful and generally I found even the stations towards the outskirts pretty clean and well kept all thing considering. Some of the entry turnstiles probably need an update but other than that everything was perfectly good for what it is meant to do.The Stations I would recommend touring are Mayakovskaya, Komsomolskaya and Revolution Square. These are in my opinion really beautiful.BTW - The station names are in Cyrillic so being able to read this is a plus though if you memorize the number of stations between your points this also helps :-);5;July 26, 2011
Thrilling, fast paced, chaos...oh and very beautiful;The first time I experienced the Moscow metro was in July 2010, my first time in Russia; I was alone with a big suitcase and a backpack, armed with a few Russian phrases and my knowledge of Sydney (Australia) public transport I set off with confidence.  After standing in line for 20 minutes to get my ticket at Beloruskaya station, I lept off down the escalators, down, down, down- almost to the centre of the earth!  Off I hoped, took a glance around me, couldn't see what all the fuss was about, the station was ugly and then heard the screaming sound of the train rushing toward us- metal screeching on metal... I was sucked towards the train with some kind of gravitational force as it slammed on its brakes and was knocked through the doors head over heels!  I couldn't hear the stations being called and had no idea where I was.  After being half beaten to death by a babushka wanting my seat I got off at the next station and realised I was totally lost!  And so the tour began... lesson learned, read ALL the signs, and note that the Moscow metro is truly a survival of the fittest... you will climb hundreds of stairs (with your suitcase), be bowled over if you're on the wrong side (in Australia we walk on the left!) and if you visit in winter (as I did my second time in Russia) the crowds do not slow down when the stairs are covered in ice (in-fact they wear stillettos!)  Once I ditched my bag in the hotel and tried again the next day I realised it was a whole lot easier and a very practical system once you figure it out.  There are some very beautiful stations- Revolution Square, Komsomolskaya and Mayakovskaya are a few but avoid Teatralnaya and Beloruskaya- they are only there to get from A to B.  The picture here is of Komsomolskaya station- I risked getting robbed to take this shot as I had with me all my bags, coats, gloves etc on me and nothing screams "TOURIST" like pulling out a camera in rush hour.  Good Luck!!!;4;July 10, 2011
So ,so;Maybe I was unlucky but the stations I passed by were so dark and dirty...Kievskaya , Smolenskaya, Lubyanca , Theater square.... I expected more , but I still believe that beautiful stations are there to be seen. The subway is a big labyrinth but I could deal with it normally , specially after the second day of using. The point to pay attention is that at the conections between the lines,  the related stations have different names. Fortunately I had studied the Cyrillic alphabet and found my way easilyI confess I felt better in St.Petersburg metro: that one was really clear and clean.;2;July 9, 2011
Two metro stations to visit!;I've been inspired during my trip to moscow to make a contribution. There are two metro stations that I really enjoyed during our recent excursion.  the first is Revolution Square, dedicated to the revolution of 1917. Upon entering, you see endless life-size bronze sculptures depicting various events of the revolution. Second, the Mayakovsky metro is a virtual underground palace.  Many different colors of semi precious marble, the guide explained can from a pre-revolutionary building Stalin destroyed for the material.I'm sure that are many more stations I didnt see, but my advice is to start with these two.;5;June 27, 2011
The most beautiful stations in the world;Living in New York, I'm very use to taking public transportation around the city.  We actually took a tour of the metro system, which is one inexpensive site to see in Moscow.  The fare is only a few dollars, and the trains run almost every 1-2 minutes.  During rush hour, it can get packed, so be sure and be assertive when getting into the train.But at a few stations, the architecture is unmatched.  There are stations filled with life-size metal statues, marble and granite everywhere, and chandeliers that are beautiful!  It's not a trip to Moscow without visiting this subterranean marvel!;5;June 19, 2011
The journey IS the destination;Moscow is full of magnificent sites, all easy to reach by one of the world's most efficient metro systems. But that metro system itself is a grand collection of spectacular architecture, murals, mosaics, statues, stained glass, and other beautiful features. The Metro opened in 1935 with eight stations, each envisioned by Stalin as a taste of palatial opulence for the common people (a similar but less spectacular system was built in Saint-Petersburg). These stations, along with those that quickly followed, were designed by different architects in different styles but all according to Stalin's vision, Several were honored with international awards for architectural brilliance.Upon Stalin's death in 1953, new national leaders recognized the economic reality that urgently needed new stations must be built within reduced budgets. These stations, while still lovely, became less grandiose over the years.But economic necessity gave birth to a new minimalist style, and new stations again are winning international design awards.You can enjoy a pricey guided tour of the most impressive stations. Or, for the cost of a round-trip ticket (less than $2) with free transfers between lines, anyone can wander through any station in the system.;5;June 3, 2011
huge;I was really amazed by Moscow Metro. It offers many well combined lines and the stations are so decorated that its worth to have a rdie by metro just to see couple of them. On the walls you will find the history of Russia nad Moscow. Trains are in majority old fashioned and crowded in rush hours. But its a "must see" point in Moscow.;5;January 29, 2011
great thing to explore;This is an unbelievable thig. ITs definitely first thing to see in Moscow, first of all because it allows you to get to all sightseeing points but also because its an attraction itself. Tickets are easy too buy even is you dont speak russian - everyhrere on the stations there are ticket machines. Then when you are on the way to the platform and step on the escalator - be careful because the view is breathtaking. Some of the stations are reaaaally deep. Platforms and all the corridors are an awesome architectural experience. Decorations are increadible, be sure to watch walls and ceilings!;5;January 29, 2011
worth visit with a guide;Moscow underground is not just a metropolitan travel system, but a wonderful architecture creation.  Many stations built in Stalin time really look rather like palaces, but to look at them in an interesting order and to choose time when they are not too crowded you really need a guide.  Also, be prepared - Moscow metro is probably one of the most butiful undergrounds in the world, and the one noisiest in the world.;5;January 25, 2011
Almost the only way to get somewhere in Moscow on time;The Moscow metro system rapidly differs from metro systems in other cities. It is very deep and old. Probably that is why it is not so convenient and "user-friendly".  But all stations on the circular line are like art work, in marble and ornaments. The metro is also the only means of transport in Moscow which is cheap, quick and on time: the trains depart every two minutes.But the metro is just full at rush hours and it is very-very difficult to use it with suitcases. There is only one main escalator at each station, so if you need to change a line you will have to carry your case in hands climbing the stairs (or going down). And that is not very convenient! Especially when there are skits of people all around...;4;November 18, 2010
It is just amazing, but badly overcrowded;Moscow Metro is awfully overcrowded and it is the only bad thing about it. Generaly this transport system is amazing and majestic. In other cities you will never find such gorgeous ornamentation in metro as in the Moscow's one and that is the thing that is the most famous about Moscow Metro. However there are a lot of other interesting facts about it. For example there is one of the deepest stations in the world ("Park Pobedy") in Moscow and almost 2.5 billion of peoples use this metro system every year. However, it looks like Moscow metro is not well discovered at the moment since it probably has a lot of secret branches and this means that not all facts about the Metro are known.;4;November 11, 2010
The best transport in Moscow;Moscow Metro is not just a beatifull construction but the best and sometimes the only transport to get your destination. Taxi is very expensive in Moscow and traffic jams is a very big problem. So Metro is the easiest and the cheapiest way for travelling in this city. It is very safety. Because of terrorist treats there a lot  of cameras on stations, and special people near an escalator are looking for any suspicious people.;5;October 26, 2010
Moscow metro - simply an experience!;Moscow metro network is definitely one of the biggest ones in the world. It is very efficient way to commute around the city, especially that the traffic jams are huge and if you get stuck you might be stuck for several hours (no joke).While most stations are quite old and would need some renovation work done, others (especially on the circular line) are richly decorated and very nice (all in marble, full of ornaments, etc).Tickets are very cheap - less than 1 USD per ride - however, you need to manage to buy them in Russian as the cashiers rarely speak English. Beware of rush hours in the mornings and in the afternoons - the passages and escalators might get very packed! And beware of door closing signals - they won't wait for you! As the trains come every 2 minutes or so they depart quite rapidly. So if you didn't make it in or out, better don't risk getting squeezed between the doors.;3;September 30, 2010
Excellent;Yes, not only is the metro in Moscow the easiest, cheapest (about a dollar a ride) and most convenient way to get around Moscow, many of the stations are better than some palaces I've seen. It is even better than the St. Petersburg metro stations, and those were impressive.  Basically any station inside or along the circular number 5 route is noteworthy. If you see one you like, just hop off and hop back on. There is no extra charge for doing so.  Oh, and also, the subway is easily the loudest I've ever been on. I found myself wishing for ear plugs.;5;September 15, 2010
Best way to move around and at the same time an attraction itself;The taxis are expensive and there are traffic jams everywhere and every time, so the subway is a cheap and good means of transport! On top of that some of the stations in the Moscow subway are well decorated and a nice attraction by themselves.The staff might not be friendly or understand English but it's easy to buy tickets anyway, you just need to tell them how many tickets you want. Navigating the subway can be tricky, get a map.;4;August 17, 2010
Can't go to Moscow and not ride the metro!;You have to take advantage of the amazing metro stations in Moscow.  There are tons of statues, chandeliers and stained glass.  It is a must see!  I found it to be very safe.  Remember to count the stops!! It will help with the language barrier!;5;January 29, 2010
If you do one thing in Moscow...ride the metro;...and if you only go to one station make it Komsomolskaya. WOW! I went down there at about 4pm -  it was extremely  busy, but this did not detract from its magnificence. Make your way down to the far end of the platform to get away from the crowds and commence photography.  You can read up on the stories behind the mosaics on Wikapedia before you go, but be careful not to bump into too many commuters as you stare at them in wonderment. My second favorite was Novoslobodskaya which has decorative stained glass panels. If you pick up a bilingual map navigating the metro is quite easy. It is a cheap treat!;5;January 11, 2010
Don't bother with taxis, catch the metro!;I stayed in Moscow for 5 weeks and at first was a bit daunted by the dark underground train system which I used almost every day.  However once I realised that everyone is very well behaved and minding their own business, and that the train is not going to crash (even though it seems to go very fast) then I really started to enjoy it!  Yes their are many beautiful stations to see, with marble, statues, mosaics etc, but even more interesting are the people!  You can find all sorts of people on the trains, from children, to business people, to teenagers having fun, to drunk people to grandparents etc etc.  It really is a good way to see what the people of Moscow are really like.  They just go about their day and don't seem to mind if the train is crowded or if there are no vacant seats.  It is just accepted and they get on with it, unlike the whinging people of my own home town of Brisbane!;5;August 31, 2009
if pressed for time, just see the circle line;Yes, the metro mustn't be missed.The most beautiful stations are around the loop, so just take a ride around and hop off at an interesting station if you are pressed for time.Anyway, cars come every 45 seconds, so you can hop back on if you don't like the station.Also the major stations ( the 2 large inter-changing central ones) shouldn't be missed.A lot of communist - themed mosiacs around.Hey, it's only 22 Rubles!;4;May 29, 2009
Moscow metro and st petersburg metro tip;I used metro in Moscow and St. Petersburg. They were not so difficult as expected. My tips how to use moscow metro.1. Print station and line no. in Russian. Ignore English. 2. In Moscow. We can buy each ride 22 Rub at KACCA (booth). Or we can buy more rides for cheaper. I bought 2 rides (44 Rub) to avoide wasting time when I returned. Show fingers for how many rides you want. Booth lady can not speak English. There was a paper show princes at KACCA window. The lady will give you a ticket which you wave over the machine to get in. At the first time, I tried to put ticket in the machine hole but it couldn't. When you get out, you don't need ticket. You can keep it to get in for the next ride if you buy for more than one time ticket. Sometimes the lady will give seperate tickets for each ride.St. Peter Metro: cost 20 Rub for each ride. Kacca lady will give you a coin. Put the coin in the machine to get in the metro. The coin will not come out. There was a sign for no photo in St. Peter Metro.3. Remember metro line no., in St. Petersburg colors can not see clearly. And remember 3 first Russian letter for next station. So you can get in the train on correct side.4. Count for how many stops for your stations. Becareful that some satation may not operate, Just remember 3 Russian letters for your station to double check.5. Becareful your bags and pockets.6. You can get out train to see some stations. Decorations are so beautiful.;4;April 28, 2009
The most interesting historic place;I love the Moscow Metro. I used to go by it for many times. It is the most beutifull architectual museum of the Stalin time.;5;December 26, 2008
Moscow overall;We found Moscow very beatiful.The efficiency with the way trains all run on time is excellent.Lucky I could read russian as getting around a Metro is like a maze for a person that has no knowledge of the language and if you ask directions people are not very willing to help.I found people mostly sad and in their own world.It is also very expensive yet young people are all well dressed not casual and there are not many people over 40 on the streets in the evening.Just about everybody smokes but I have not seen a place that is cleaner.There are babushkas every where cleaning.The concierge at our hotel were very good they would map out our day very precisely and we had no trouble finding our way .A must is a visit to the largest Moscow Market Izmailevo. A treasure for gifts and memories.And not far from centre on the metro.We loved the experience and would love to go back. And it is very safe as we were warned before we left to look behind our back.;4;September 20, 2008
One of the Best Things In Moscow;We did a self-guided tour of the Moscow Metro stations and it was well worth the time and effort.  People were so helpful when we had trouble getting to the correct level to find the correct subway line.  It was indeed as interesting and beautiful as the descriptions we had read.  I thought the lines were very efficient and if we had read Russian better, we would not have had any trouble.  But that is our fault that we didn't recognize or know the Cyrillic alphabet better.  We got better each time we rode and felt very comfortable and safe on all the lines.;5;September 8, 2008
Nine million a day;The preceding four reviewers all focused on the Moscow Metro's station art as the key drawcard.It is undeniably important, even if only as a record of a now in theory departed but possibly still partially present totalitarian state.However I went for a different reason: to observe the busiest urban rail system in the world, with about nine million passenger trips a day: amazing!Service frequencies are excellent, at about two minutes apart if I recall.The metro trains are quick to load and unload, and not always as crowded as one reviewer claimed.I did not see any lifts operating to give access to very deep underground platforms.  The escalators seem to operate very fast by Western standards, and the ladies in the booths at the bottom are uniformly unhelpful to non-Russian speaking Westerners, or so it seemed from my tint sample.  Perhaps they are simply tired from many years of waiting in department store queues during the pre-glasnost Soviet era?;5;September 7, 2008
Crowded, unfriendly service, no signs in English - but gets you from A to B;Perhaps some of the metro stations are worth a closer look, but if you are like me you would rather have a metro system that is efficient, easy to use, clean and gets you from A to B as cheaply and fast as possible. At least I am not really interested in spending too much time examining aging metro stations underground even if it is one of the cheapest attractions in a city where most things are outrageously expensive.The Moscow metro gets you from A to B fast and cheaply, the trains runs frequently, it is very large and appears to cover most of the central parts of the city pretty well. That is what is good about the Moscow Metro.But it isn't easy to use, especially if you are a non-Russian speaker. All signs are in Russian only, the maps are not easy to read, few (if any) of the staff speaks any English, the queues are often long, and when you finally get to the front of the line you are usually face to face with one of the meanest and most unfriendly people you are ever likely to meet in Moscow. And that really says something as you are unlikely to find many locals that are likely to go out of their way to help you in any way whatsoever.The trains and stations are often overcrowded and dirty, the stations are usually large with long walking distances between connecting trains, often with many stairs that needs to be climbed or descended, the signposting is often difficult to make sense of, and especially at the larger stations it is almost impossible to predict where you are going to emerge when you leave the station.But despite all this the Moscow Metro is still the easiest and best way to get around the city. And despite the many issues that makes the experience less than enjoyable, it is impossible not to agree that the Moscow Metro is a very well run and efficient transport system.;2;September 5, 2008
Easy to use and has beautiful stations;If you go to Moscow be sure to take the Metro.  Is easy to use, cheaper then a cab, and has many beautiful stations at the stops within the brown ring (constisting of marble, artwork, bronze statues...thanks to stalin)  The cost is 19R one way.  Buy a scan card at the booth and ask for a Metro map.  To get in, swipe the card on the circle scanner, and walk thru the gate when the light turns green.  The metro lines are color coded, just note the name of the top or bottom of the line to know which side of the platform to go to.;4;June 30, 2008
Each Station is its own work of art;The Moscow Metro has been undergoing a lengthy facelift on some of its Stations.  Some of the Stations have been closed down for serious renovation, and hopefully for the better.   The Moscow Metro is a worthwhile experience to look at each Station for its style and decoration.  Some are still in the old school Communist decor, while others are more modern.  Just prep yourselves for some interesting body odor smells from your fellow passengers (to include passed out drunks) and a total lack of personal space while you journey between each stop.;3;March 23, 2008
A truly unique Moscow experience!;By traveling from station to station in the center of Moscow, and getting off at each one to look at the decorative artwork which adorns each, you can see one of the things which really sets Moscow apart from just about any other place in the world.  As the previous reviewer noted, the artwork is perhaps a bit dated, but in my view, that's part of the charm.  If you want to see Soviet-era symbolism, this is perhaps the best way to do it.  A lot of it may not amount to fine art, in many people's opinions, since its primary purpose was to glorify the Soviet Union, but it may be one of the few remaining places in which a visitor can get a bit of the flavor of that era.  And besides that, some of it is actually quite interesting, such as the ceiling murals in Mayakovskaya Station.  There are, perhaps, a dozen different pictures, and you must stand directly under each one, in order to view it.  As you are looking upward, the picture creates an image which could only be seen by looking skyward in the outdoors.  One shows airplanes flying overhead, another parachutists, etc.  Sort of an interesting concept, considering that you may be 100 feet or more underground.  For a good taste of the various stations, you can simply get on the "brown" circle line, stop at each station and take a look, then exit when you get back, along the circle line, to the place where you started.  This is really just a teaser though, since some of the more interesting stations are not on the circle line, but once you've mastered it, you may feel more like trying some of the other lines.  Don't bother with the stations outside the city center, however.  They lose their appeal pretty quickly once you venture outside the circle.;5;September 29, 2007
Great 50's era Communist art.;If you like 50's era Communist art this is the place for you.  It was great in the 50's, but apparently no one thought to maintain the stations.  Very efficietn public transport, for sure.  But if you are here to see art, not so much.;4;June 24, 2006
